The 75th Hunger Games arena is where the 75th Hunger Games or third Quarter Quell took place. This small arena was divided into twelve sections, with a Gamemaker trap in each wedge being activated twice a day at a particular hour.

The tributes were launched on their pedestals in a ring around the Cornucopia, which sat on an island in the center of a round salt lake. The sky above them was pink. Rather than offering food and other supplies like usual, the Cornucopia only held weapons this year. Its tail originally pointed to the twelve o'clock sector, but the island could be spun around to disorient tributes.
Like a wheel, spokes divided the salt lake into twelve sections, with two tributes in each. These spokes ran from the Cornucopia to the beach. Beyond the beach was a dense jungle, invisibly divided into twelve sections as well. A high-voltage force field enclosed the entire arena in a dome.

The arena was set up like a clock, with each wedge holding a different threat activated by the hour. The cycle began at midnight on the first night when a bell tolled twelve times, marking the start of the second day. Of the arena's twelve sections, only six are known concretely, with tributes speculating on two others.

Hour 12-1: Lightning bolts struck a specific tree, though there were identical trees in each sector to confuse the tributes.
Hour 1-2: Seeing last hour's storm, dehydrated tributes eagerly awaited regular rainfall, only to be soaked and blinded with blood rain.
Hour 2-3: Poisonous fog caused painful blistering, paralysis, and death.
Hour 3-4: Vicious monkey mutts with orange fur, fangs, and claws that came out like switchblades.
Hour 4-5: Jabberjays tortured tributes with the screams of their loved ones.
Hour 5-6: Unknown
Hour 6-7: An unknown threat, presumed to be a giant muttation "beast", tore a tribute into pieces.
Hours 7-8, 8-9, and 9-10: Unknown
Hour 10-11: A giant wave swept across the entire sector.
Hour 11-12: Tributes could hear noisy insects coming from this sector, "something with pincers", which they thought could strip them to the bone in seconds.

Unlike most years, food and drink were not available at the Cornucopia, and there were no tools to facilitate desalinating water from the salt lake. However, the trees were full of fresh water; one could drill a hole into the bark and place a spile to extract the water inside.
In terms of food, tributes could forage for edible nuts, or they could hunt some of the jungle's ordinary, if unfamiliar, wildlife. Meat could be tossed into the force field to be cooked. Those with sharp weapons could spear fish in the salt lake, or they could bring in a shellfish if they fashioned a net; these things could be eaten raw. Fair swimmers could even dive for oysters. Sponsors could also send gifts of food to tributes by parachute like usual.

Monkey mutts
Jabberjays
Unknown "beast"
Noisy insects (presumed)