Ampert Latier was one of the two male tributes from District 3 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games. He is the son of a District 3 victor.

He was reaped for the 50th Hunger Games as punishment for his father coming up with a plan to sabotage the communication system. His father was forced to mentor him and also attend training sessions.

Before the start of the games, he decided to build an alliance between tributes from non-career districts in an attempt to counter the Career pack. At his first training session, he quickly secured two districts, and approached another tribute to see if his district was interested in joining. He gave that tribute a pin to unlock his cuffs to show how useful he could be.

At the next training session, that tribute had changed his mind and decided to join the alliance. He introduced his fellow district tributes, and it was revealed he had also persuaded another district to join. While helping another tribute, he told the tribute that his father wanted to talk to him.

At lunch, he brought the alliance to sit with another district. He explained the purpose of the alliance—to counter the Careers—and proposed hunting them down for a change instead of letting them do the hunting. Another tribute agreed that they could beat the odds if they got enough tributes to join their alliance. With the need to get most of the remaining unattached districts on their side, he and the other tribute tried to persuade them. That tribute secured another district and they decided to give their alliance a name. He suggested a name that showed they weren't collaborators who trained for the Games, and they decided on the Newcomers.

Before entering the arena, his father enlisted him and the other tribute to help sabotage the Games by drowning the onsite control room. At the next training session, he does not discuss this with the other tribute as it was too dangerous to talk and instead focused on getting another district to join the Newcomers' alliance. This was essential as it was later revealed his father wanted to use their flower tokens to smuggle explosives into the arena. The other tribute persuaded them to join while he finally got another district on their side. They also used the black cord on his token to conceal the fuse.

When the Games began, he stayed with the Newcomers and settled on the mountain while the other tribute ran towards the forest. Some of them got sick from the poisonous environment, but were cured with an antidote of syrup in one of their packs. The next day, he left the Newcomers armed with an ax after scavenging flower tokens from other tributes and tried to find the other tribute. Although this was to secretly carry out his father's sabotage plan together, he publicly claimed it was because the Newcomers' needed him. He gave an update on the happenings on the mountain.

The other tribute pretended to give him a tour of the forest, although he was secretly trying to show him the berms that he saw muttations returning to the control room through. He slept while the other tribute gathered wood and pine needles to create a fire site near the beam. He awoke and they set a fire, ostensibly to cook dinner, and then lay out his own token concealing the fuse and he and the other tribute wear the flower tokens containing the explosives around their necks.

They slept until after midnight when they were sure few were watching. He gave the other tribute the fuse and the explosive, they pried open the beam, the other tribute gave him a knife and left him on the ground while he climbed down.

He and the other tribute successfully enacted the plan to bomb the arena's water tank. However, the Gamemakers retaliated by sending squirrel mutts programmed to attack only him. The mutts devoured the boy, leaving only a small white skeleton behind. However, although the arena was damaged, it did not shut down the Games and it continued. In rage at his death, the other tribute dropped his spear and took his ax, which he used for the rest of the Games, and chopped down part of the arena.

He was noted as being barely five feet tall. His voice hadn't been changed by puberty yet. Alongside the rest of the District 3 tributes, he wore electric blue in the arena.

He was a very kind and smart boy, coming up with the idea of a huge alliance to possibly counter the careers. He was friendly to everyone but builds a specific bond with another tribute. His father agreed that he was a "great kid".

He first met another tribute during a training session for the 50th Hunger Games where he took a liking to that tribute for mocking the president on another tribute's death. He and that tribute developed a friendship where the latter decided to join an alliance formed by him against the Careers. When that tribute found out he was a victor's son and was reaped in order to punish his father for his rebellious activities, that tribute promised his father he would look after him as they worked to blow up the arena.

During the Games, he and that tribute teamed up to carry out their plan to destroy the arena's water tank. However, their attempt only partially damaged the arena and the Gamemakers retaliated by sending squirrel mutts programmed to attack only him as punishment for his rebelliousness. That tribute tried to save him, but was unable to get the mutts away from his friend. In rage and sadness over his death, that tribute chopped down part of the arena in his grief and took his ax, which he used for the rest of the Games.