Annie Cresta is a victor from District 4 known for winning the 70th Hunger Games. She is the widow of another victor and the mother of their son.

She was born in a Career district, where she presumably enrolled in the district's Hunger Games training program at a young age. Throughout her late-childhood and teenage years, she was prepared for the rigors of the Arena by being trained in weapons skills, survival, and combat under the supervision of instructors and past victors. At the age of 18, she likely volunteered during the reaping for the 70th Hunger Games. During her training, she probably allied with tributes from other Career districts as was common.

During the 70th Hunger Games, she witnessed her district partner be beheaded. The event severely traumatized her, resulting in her isolating herself from her allies and other tributes for most of the Games. This presumably worked until an earthquake broke a dam, flooding the arena. Having grown up in a district focused on fishing, she survived by being the best swimmer and was eventually declared victor after outlasting her competition.

Following her victory, she suffered from mental instability and PTSD from the trauma. She often closed her eyes and covered her ears, laughed at unusual times, and fell into a daze. Despite this, she received help from a fellow victor from her district. Being the only person who could calm her, the two grew close, and eventually became secret lovers. As was the duty of victors, she participated in the Victory Tour.

With the announcement of the rule change for the Third Quarter Quell, she was once again eligible to be reaped. She was present during the reaping for the 75th Hunger Games, where she was selected as the female tribute. Her selection sent her into hysterics onstage, leading an older victor to volunteer to enter the Games in her place. During the Games, her voice and screams were mimicked by jabberjays to torture the other victor. Following the attack, it was revealed she was in a relationship with him.

Following the destruction of the arena and the outbreak of the Second Rebellion, she was arrested and tortured. It was believed she was taken simply as a weapon to use against the other victor. After a clandestine mission to extract imprisoned victors, she was safely returned and reunited with him.

Sometime later, the two were married in the traditional district style. It was noticed that, since their marriage, he did not let go of her hand and that she seemed lost in some daze of happiness. Later on, they met with other survivors at lunch. When a traumatic topic was discussed, she covered her ears. Through conversation, it was figured that she was not all that bad, though a little mentally unstable.

Sometime prior to the final battle, she conceived a child and became pregnant. During the battle, the other victor was killed.

Before a planned execution, the surviving victors were asked if they would like one final Hunger Games using children of the powerful in retribution. She voted no, commenting that her husband would have voted alongside her. At the execution, she was present alongside the other victors.

Following the war and the transition to democracy, she returned to her home in District 4, where she gave birth to her son.

Being a Career, she was likely raised glorifying the Games and presumably, through her Career training, became ruthless in her preparations. Nevertheless, the trauma she experienced in her Games left her mentally unstable and withdrawn. While described as "strange," it was felt that she was not "mad" as others believed, but simply "unstable". She would occasionally withdraw into herself, staring off into space with a blank smile until she was brought back to reality. She sometimes laughed at odd points in conversation or dropped out entirely, and when triggered, she was known to close her eyes and cover her ears with her hands. When she was reaped for the 75th Hunger Games, she was described as being "hysterical" before another volunteered.

Despite this, post-Games she was a very kind-hearted and forgiving young woman, capturing the heart of another victor, and later voting against a proposed Hunger Games using children from the opposing side.

She was married to and widowed by another victor. They had a son together following the end of the war.

The two had a deep love for each other where he mentored her, and most likely did everything to keep her alive. During an interview, he recited a poem for her. During the Quarter Quell, he heard her screams during the jabberjay attack because she was who he cared about above all others. He was worried that she had been hurt.

Later, he constantly worried about her and could not concentrate on anything else. He was out of his mind because she had been captured. He broke down when he couldn't handle it anymore, and soon after his breakdown, she was rescued. The two were finally able to reunite. They would later marry and conceive a son. He was killed before she gave birth. Due to their strong relationship, it can be assumed that she greatly mourned his death.

Although regarded as mentally unstable, it was recognized that she was not truly "mad" and was treated with kindness. When she got married, another victor lent her one of her dresses to wear. They seemed to be on good terms, since they kept in touch after the war was over.

Her symptoms resemble those of someone suffering from complex post-traumatic stress disorder (CPTSD). She supposedly went mad after seeing the male tribute from her district get decapitated. When her husband dies, he is also decapitated.