Arachne Crane was a female resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. She was assigned the female tribute from District 10.

Her family was part of the old guard of the wealthy from the Capitol. They worked in the travel industry, having developed luxury hotels in vacation destinations. She had an older brother who graduated from the Academy the year prior.

During the first mentor-tribute meeting, her tribute told her about how she spent most of her time in District 10 butchering hogs. She found it repulsive until she realized she could use the knowledge of District 10 to make up something more brilliant than the details of a slaughterhouse.

During a class, she and two others were chosen by their peers to write a proposal about how sponsorship and betting could be implemented in the 10th Hunger Games. She died before being able to contribute to the proposal.

She was killed by her own tribute, knifed in the throat after she taunted the tribute by reaching through the bars to offer a cheese sandwich, only to then withdraw it. Angered, the tribute used the knife that had sliced the cheese for the sandwich to accomplish the deed. As her face drained of color, she turned towards the audience for help, but only two of her classmates went over in an attempt to help her. She was lifted onto a stretcher by medics shortly after she died.

After her death, a schoolwide assembly was held at the Academy. For her funeral, numerous cameras and reporters were positioned.

She was a boisterous individual and was perceived as having always been very loud and always mocking people. She was cruel and taunted her tribute, which resulted in her death. Her funeral was considered ridiculous and out of proportion for someone like her.

She and a classmate were neighbors. People thought that she and this classmate were great friends and, as such, he was tasked with singing the anthem at her funeral. In fact, the two were not actually very close at all. They had grown up together, attending important events in each other's lives, as was natural for members of two families of money who lived close together, but did not really like each other.

She and another classmate were classmates. She teases one classmate about liking the other. She then asks the other to spill who won a prize. He refuses, and implies that people only like her for her wealth.

She knew how to balance a spoon on her nose, which along with her loudness was considered her only talent.