An arena is a large, enclosed, outdoor area where the Hunger Games were held each year. Arenas were designed by the Gamemakers and a new one was built every year. It could be anything from dense forest to an open meadow, or a frozen wasteland to a scorched desert. The Gamemakers planted traps and introduced cunning twists to entertain the people.

The arenas were considered important historical landmarks and were preserved after the conclusion of each year's competition. They were also popular tourist destinations, where visitors would be able to rewatch the Games, visit the sites of tributes' deaths, and even take part in reenactments. After the end of the Second Rebellion, all the arenas were destroyed, and memorials were constructed in their place.

Most arenas were seemingly natural environments that were actually under strict control by the Gamemakers. They could remotely trigger traps to herd tributes towards one another, unleash vicious muttations upon them, and manipulate the weather conditions, such as temperature and precipitation. They could even artificially simulate different times of day.
Arenas were enclosed by dome-shaped force fields. Hovercraft were able to come and go through them to extract tributes' remains, and a cloaked hovercraft carrying a huge screen displayed the nightly tally of the dead during the anthem. In some depictions, the dead tributes' images were instead projected against a false sky. Some arenas had a sun in alignment with the real sun, some had multiple suns, and some had no suns at all.

Underneath each arena was a series of catacombs that held the tributes' Launch Rooms. Muttations also entered and exited the arena via the catacombs. Inside their individual Launch Rooms, tributes changed into their arena wear and stepped onto metal platforms that lifted them into the arena.
The catacombs were a huge subterranean floor underneath the arenas where manual tasks like releasing muttations and stocking up for a feast were carried out. Its existence was kept secret to keep up the pretence that the games were controlled entirely from afar. The most important task here was managing the onsite computer system which was integral when running the Games, kept in a restricted area with high-tech security. It also created and maintained the tribute ecosystem; providing the electricity, plumbing, heating, cooling and ventilation among other things.

Once in the arena, tributes would find themselves arranged in a circle around the Cornucopia. This provided tributes with weapons, food, survival gear, and other useful supplies, if they went in and fought for it at the bloodbath. However, tributes had to remain in place for a sixty-second countdown before the Games could begin, or else they would be blown up by landmines around their platforms.

For a period, the Hunger Games were hosted in the same location: a dilapidated amphitheater that had been used for sporting, entertainment, and military events prior to the Dark Days, but fell into disrepair afterwards. Tributes were simply thrown into the arena and left to fight. Since there was no cover, the Hunger Games tended to proceed quickly. Things changed when a bombing of the arena opened up access to various tunnels, resulting in a number of new strategies. Brightly colored snake mutts were released into the arena on the fourth day.

After that, the original arena was abandoned and the Gamemakers instead used existing settings in the wild or bombed-out towns and such.

The First Quarter Quell was the first time that the Gamemakers built an actual arena for the Hunger Games.

The arena for the Second Quarter Quell was a big, beautiful meadow, with flowers, streams, pools, birds and a picturesque mountain and sharp, jagged rocks. But everything was lethal. The tributes of these Games had to face stinging butterflies; fluffy, golden squirrels which were in fact carnivorous; the picturesque mountain that was actually a volcano; flowers that could poison someone if inhaled too directly; pink birds with skewer-like beaks; and dehydration, due to the fact that the only sources of water that weren't toxic were from the bounty at the Cornucopia or rainfall.

The arena for the 74th Hunger Games was a large expanse of various terrains. In the center around the Cornucopia where the tributes launched was a plain of hard packed dirt. In one direction, there was a wheat field. In another direction there was a large lake. In the other two directions, there was a forest which made up most of the arena. In the woods, there was a stream that led to the lake, and a rocky area with numerous caves beside it. There were also several ponds, a variety of different trees, and a marshy area. Inhabiting the arena, there were natural animals such as rabbits, squirrels, deer, and water birds. There were also several Gamemaker muttations: tracker jackers, mockingjays, and wolf mutts. The forest was rigged with traps such as devices that could launch fireballs. The Gamemakers could manipulate the temperature so that it was freezing at night and hot during the day, even drying up the stream later into the Games.
In a film depiction, the arena was mostly a wooded forest, with mountainous higher areas and flat plains. A single large river ran through the east of the arena that fed into the large lake by the Cornucopia.

The arena for the Third Quarter Quell was set up like a clock. The 12 to 1 wedge consisted of a tall tree that was periodically struck by lightning during the 12th hour, which proved to be a very important factor later on. The other sections of the "clock" each had a tall tree identical to the 12 to 1 tree to throw tributes off, and were made up of different "horrors" that were unleashed by the hour. Known threats included blood rain, acid fog, vicious monkey mutts, jabberjays, an unknown beast, a tidal wave, and unknown insects.
This arena was very small, and circular in shape, enclosed by a powerful force field. The Cornucopia lay at its center, tail pointing in the direction of the 12th hour, and was surrounded by water and twelve spokes between each set of two tributes as they were first raised into the arena. The trees were the only source of drinkable water, which had to be extracted by a spile or by hacking at the bark. In a film depiction, this arena appeared to be made of a series of hexagonal screens mounted to a girder system with a force field on the inside that prevented damage from occurring.
On the third night inside the arena, a tribute blew out the force field during the midnight lightning storm, allowing rebels to perform an extraction by hovercraft.

For the 49th Hunger Games the arena was full of shiny surfaces lakes that reflected the sky clouds that turned to vapor and boulders and caves and cliffs overlayed with mirrors. The Gamemakers called it the Nest of Mirrors.

The 70th Hunger Games arena had a dam that was later broken by an earthquake, flooding the arena.

Some other arenas are mentioned, but it is unknown in which Hunger Games they appeared.

A few years before the 50th Hunger Games, there was an arena that would go darkish without any warning. Out of the shadows, giant coal black weasels with pointy teeth would appear and attack the tributes.
A ruined city arena is briefly shown in a film depiction.
There once was a freezing cold arena with no firewood. The audience considered this "anticlimactic" because so many tributes huddled into balls and quietly froze to death.
One arena had a landscape of boulders, sand, and scruffy bushes. Many tributes were bitten by venomous snakes or went insane from thirst.
Prior to the 74th Hunger Games, an avalanche killed a tribute who had snapped and cannibalized his victims. To facilitate the avalanche, the arena probably had a snowy mountain.