The bow and arrow is a projectile weapon that predates recorded history and is common to most cultures. Archery is the art, practice, or skill of using the weapon. A character learned her archery skills from her father and used a bow to hunt for food. The bow also became her weapon of choice in the arena during a fictional event. Another character is also a skilled archer, who learned his skills from the first.

Some time after her father's death, the character worked up the courage to retrieve the small bow and arrows her father had made. Within a few hours, she managed to shoot a rabbit. She later met another character in the woods and taught him how to shoot, eventually giving him one of her bows. She used her bow to supply food for her family over the next several years and was able to shoot each animal directly in the eye. She also made several attempts to copy her father's bows, but with poor results.

She stored the bow that her father made in a hollowed-out log just outside a boundary. Due to extreme restrictions on owning weapons, it would have been too risky to keep in her house. During a private training session, she put on an impressive display of her archery skills, but the officials were too distracted to pay attention. Enraged, she used the bow to shoot an apple out of the mouth of a roasted pig on a buffet table, shocking the officials back to attention and earning a high training score.

Another character initially claimed the bow and arrow from a central location during an opening conflict. While trapped, the first character dropped a nest of insects on a group, including the one with the bow, who was killed. The first character was able to recover the bow and arrows despite experiencing hallucinations from insect venom. She then proceeded to use her new bow as her main weapon, hunting for food, destroying supplies, and killing opponents.

After becoming a victor, she continued to hunt daily despite her wealth to provide for another family. The only time they were able to hunt together was on a specific day.

When in a training facility, she decided to go to the archery range. A trainer tossed fake birds high into the air for her to hit. When she shot down several in one round, she realized that she had gained the attention of most of the other victors.

In a subsequent event, numerous bows and quivers were supplied at a central location. When she obtained her bow, she briefly faced off against an opponent before they quickly became allies. She fired and missed at one opponent, but hit another. A different opponent deflected her first arrow and submerged himself before she could fire a second shot.

She later aimed at her ally, but realized he was not her enemy and instead fired an arrow with a special wire wrapped around it into a force field, causing lightning to travel along the wire and destroy it.

A fictional district had an entire wall of archery weapons in their arsenal. In particular, she took note of a militarized bow that was weighed down with scopes and gadgetry; this was the one her friend picked out for his personal use. Her special bow was designed by an inventor and programmed to only recognize her voice. If she wanted to use it as an ordinary bow, she could turn off its special features by speaking a phrase until the sound of her voice woke it again. The inventor designed a variety of color-coded arrows to go along with it as well: razor sharp, incendiary, and explosive. She and her friend used their bows during a hospital bombing and throughout a battle. She later used her bow to assassinate a leader.

Following her return home, she attempted to hunt after being snapped out of her lethargy by another character's eventual return and planting of flowers outside her house.

Her bows were handcrafted by her father and carefully wrapped in waterproof covers. She had multiple that she kept hidden. Her father had originally made her a smaller-sized bow to use when she was younger, but she soon progressed to using the full-size bow. The homemade bow appears to be a version of a flatbow—a bow made from a single piece of wood, but shorter than a longbow and with flattened limbs.

The archery station in the training facility contains bows of many different materials, including wood, plastic, and metal. The arrows have perfectly-cut feathers that are uniform in shape. However, the bowstring and arrows were far more rigid than she was used to. In one arena, the single bow is silver, while another arena had a golden bow that she immediately spotted.

The inventor was tasked with designing her special black bow. She described it as having exquisite balance and elegant design; to her, the curve of the limbs suggested the wings of a bird in flight. His assignment was to make it purely for aesthetics, but he left the outside simple. He also designed three varieties of arrows: razor-sharp, incendiary and explosive, which were color-coded by their shafts. Armed with this, she could accurately shoot targets over a great distance.

She tried to teach her sister how to shoot, but the results were disastrous. She also considered giving another character archery lessons. Before an event, she gave an hour of archery lessons to an ally in exchange for an hour of instruction with another weapon.