Capitol TV is the main television network within the Capitol. It was used for promotional purposes where the President addressed the nation. The TV network was also known for broadcasting the Hunger Games.
It was created as part of a film promotion and was not mentioned in the original trilogy as an official network. However, it did appear in a later story, alongside another organization called Capitol News.
A character worked as a weather reporter for Capitol TV and was later tapped to host a Hunger Games. Capitol TV also covered a funeral, as well as the bombing of the Capitol Arena.

Panem Addresses were a series of broadcasts. One address was the first address from the President. The address was made in efforts to preserve a peaceful and prosperous nation with a victor standing by the President.
Another address is the second Panem address. In this address to the nation, two victors stand by the President as he commends citizens for their cooperation and unwavering dedication to a unified nation.
Halfway through the video, a character appears on the screen and announces a message before his transmission is cut short.

District Voices was a series of segments. One segment reveals the meticulous regimen trainees endure in order to join the ranks of the elite forces.
Another segment takes the network on a tour of cutting edge renewable technologies, and demonstrates a large scientific experiment.
Another segment takes the network on a tour of a military assault vehicle, and the driving force behind the protectors.
Another segment demonstrates the many possibilities for excess textile materials and resins.
Another segment features a cooking demonstration honoring a beloved victor, featuring an homage to a family bakery favorite.

Despite being created by a Capitol-run network, every District Voices video contains hidden anti-Capitol messages or includes within them information which can be used against the Capitol.
One video includes a list of techniques used in close-combat, ostensibly to allow rebels without weapons to counter their moves.
Another video highlights a major power producing location for the rebels to take down.
Another video lists all the statistics of a military assault vehicle, including the strength of explosives required to destroy them as well as inform rebels of a method by which not to attack the vehicles.
A gesture at the end of one video, when paused at the right time, appears as a hidden salute.
The flour on a baking sheet in one video is spread in the shape of a symbolic pin.