Chariot costumes were outfits created by stylists and worn by tributes during the chariot rides. These outfits were themed after their districts' main industries.

General trends included tributes from a district known for luxury goods always being favorites at the parade. Tributes from a district focused on lumber were dressed as trees for many years. New stylists often ended up creating looks for the district known for coal mining, which was seen as the least desirable district. Coal miners' baggy jumpsuits weren't flattering, so tributes usually wore skimpy outfits and hats with headlamps. One year, tributes from that district were completely naked and covered in black powder to represent coal dust. These costumes did nothing to gain the audience's favor.

For one Games' opening ceremonies, tributes from the luxury goods district were spray-painted silver and dressed in tasteful tunics glittering with jewels.

In a stylist's first year, he dressed two tributes from the coal mining district in matching outfits meant to represent burning coal. The tributes wore black unitards and leather boots, with capes and matching headpieces made of streams of yellow, orange, and red. These capes were lit with synthetic fire using a torch, and later extinguished with a canister. Their costumes outshone everybody else's, making them instant standouts. This also earned one tribute her nickname.

A stunt with fire the year before inspired a number of copycats to illuminate their own tributes' costumes for a subsequent Games' Tribute Parade. One district's victors wore outfits studded with electric lights, and another district's tributes were dressed as cows in flaming belts. Additionally, an unknown district's tributes were dressed like loaves of bread. It was observed that some of the younger victors or physically fitter victors were able to maintain their dignity in their costumes. One victor was draped in a golden net strategically knotted for modesty. Another victor wore a headdress of leafy branches, a tree costume with a zipper, and forest green slippers.

For that same Games, the two tributes from the coal mining district had their faces covered with dramatic highlights and dark shadows. They each wore a black jumpsuit from the neck down and half of a heavy crown made out of black medal, similar to ones they had been given as victors the year before. At the press of a button inside the fabric, the costume would illuminate and perfectly mimic the changing colors of glowing embers. Combined, the elements of the costume made them look intimidating, powerful, and deadly.