Clerk Carmine Clade, sometimes known as CC, was a member of the Covey, and he played the fiddle in their band. He was the younger brother of another member, and later in life, he was a guardian to an adopted niece.

During the Covey's first musical performance at the Hob after the 10th Hunger Games, Clerk Carmine played his way across the stage after being introduced. During a song, he embellished the melody with some fancy finger work on his fiddle while the others backed him up.

When another member appeared at the performance after being kicked out, trying to convince them to take him back, he tried to appeal to Clerk Carmine, but Carmine stood his ground and did not reply. Later, when that member came back to the house they lived in, Clerk Carmine looked unhappy. Another member worried about Clerk Carmine, as he still missed his brother.

He retrieved a churn that had been made, hoping to make cream for butter. Even though it was said to be a fool's errand, he hoped it might work if they gave it another day.

During a discussion of a ballad, he chimed in after one member said that the subject was different, calling her a "bonehead" and saying that she was a ghost. However, the other member didn't think this possible. At the lake, Clerk Carmine brought another member some katniss, but it wasn't yet in season for eating.

After a member fell asleep, Clerk Carmine brought over a bright blue feather he had found, wanting it to be an anonymous gift for her. When she awoke, she admired the feather and it was fixed in her hair. While heading back to town, Clerk Carmine spotted a tree full of apples and climbed it to throw down fruit to the others.

For thirty years, Clerk Carmine was in a relationship with a man who lived in town. They kept their relationship a secret to avoid harassment and discrimination.

By the time of the 50th Hunger Games, he had an adopted niece, who he raised with another member after her mother died giving birth to her. He did not approve of her relationship with a local boy. He also discouraged her connection to another family, who were known for their reckless behavior. On the day of the reaping, he called for his niece to get ready. She had been crying in the Meadow, and he shot the boy a disapproving look when she returned. During the reaping, his niece got into trouble during the disarray after another boy was killed. Upon its conclusion, she was put in handcuffs until Clerk Carmine and the other guardian bribed a Peacekeeper with money to let her go. They led her down a sideroad when she tried to get to the boy, who had been reaped in the other boy's place.

His niece was arrested again not long later for playing forbidden songs, causing Clerk Carmine and the other guardian great stress, as she was being held. When she was given permission to return home on house arrest, Clerk Carmine allowed her five minutes of privacy in the Meadow. However, the boy met her there and unintentionally fed her poisoned gumdrops. Although he shouted for Clerk Carmine, she died almost immediately after.

Clerk Carmine took her from the boy's arms, trying futilely to restart her heart as he called her name. One night, he played his niece's song on his fiddle. The boy overheard and pounded on the door of the Covey's house in desperation.

Clerk Carmine escaped the bombing of his district and traveled to another district with his fiddle. He accompanied a choir of children at a wedding.

As his niece's guardian, Clerk Carmine was stern and highly protective of her. He disapproved of her relationship.

At twelve years old, Clerk Carmine was skinny and wore a hat adorned with colorful feathers when performing. He had a similar appearance to his brother.

As an adult, he wore patched overalls, protecting his hands by shoving them in the pockets. He had a voice that carried without him needing to raise it.