Clove is the secondary antagonist of The Hunger Games. She was the female tribute from District 2 in the 74th Hunger Games. A ruthless, sadistic, and highly skilled Career Tribute, Clove became one of the main adversaries in the arena. She was incredibly skilled with knives and could throw them with deadly accuracy.

Clove was a highly feared tribute, both because of her knife-throwing techniques and her ruthlessness; she pursued the Hunger Games with a sadistic personality. She volunteered for the 74th Hunger Games. The Career pack stuck together during the training sessions and Clove was usually one of the first to flaunt her skills. She received a high training score.

During the initial bloodbath, she earned the first kill by throwing a knife. She targeted another tribute's head but was thwarted. The Careers usually team up. They were joined by another tribute later in the Games. He helped them reactivate mines which guarded the pyramid containing the Careers' supplies.

The night of the bloodbath, the Careers ventured out to hunt for tributes. In his absence, Clove and the other Careers made the decision to keep another tribute alive in the hopes that he would eventually lead them to another. When the Careers found a tribute, they chased her, and she climbed up a tree to safety. Although the Careers tried, they were unable to climb the tree and instead set up camp below. However, while they were distracted, the tribute sawed through a branch that held a tracker jacker nest. The nest dropped down and Clove, along with the others, was stung multiple times. One tribute received enough stings that she died. The tribute then jumped down from the tree after all the other tributes had run away and took a bow and arrows.

Two tributes formed an alliance and planned to destroy the supplies that the Careers had. One had to light fires to make the Careers leave and when the Careers saw the smoke, Clove and others started hunting while the other successfully destroyed all of the remaining Careers' supplies, after which another tribute was killed out of anger. Clove and another calmed him down long enough to explain that the tribute that destroyed their supplies must have died, so they waited for nightfall. Only then did they realize that the bomber was still alive, so they went hunting.

At the beginning of a feast, Clove went in for a backpack while another scouted the area. When a tribute came to get medicine, Clove threw a knife, slicing her above the eye before tackling her to the ground. The tribute attempted to bite Clove's hand, but she held the tribute's head down. Clove asked what was in the bag and expressed hate.

At that point, Clove could have easily killed the tribute, but she made two fatal errors: first, she taunted the tribute about another tribute's death; second, instead of killing quickly, she wanted to savor the moment, saying that she would give a slow, painful death. She reached into her jacket to select a knife; after much debate, she decided to start with the lips. The tribute spat blood into Clove's face, making her flush with rage.

Another tribute heard Clove mention the death, quickly yanked her off, and held her a foot above the ground. He then accused her of the killing, which Clove truthfully denied. When Clove saw him holding a large rock, she screamed for her ally. He smashed the rock into her temple, denting her skull. Her ally ran to her after hearing her cries, but Clove died in his arms as he begged her to stay with him. In another version, the tribute pinned Clove against the Cornucopia before slamming her headfirst against it, cracking her skull. She dropped to the ground, dying soon after the impact.

Clove appeared in a nightmare before a subsequent Hunger Games. She stabbed the dreamer in the cheek and then turned into a mutt and began to lick the wound, causing great pain. Clove reminded her that she couldn't run away from her fears, thereafter turning into a mutt and giving chase.

During the Games, Clove stabbed a male tribute during the bloodbath. She targeted another tribute next, aiming a knife at her head, but it was blocked. She was the only Career tribute who came close to killing a specific tribute twice, and certainly seemed to have a deep hatred for her, perhaps because that tribute received a higher score.

In the Games, Clove, being a Career Tribute, had medicine, food, water, weapons and other supplies. The supplies were destroyed from mines. When they were blown up, she was left with her knives and whatever she had left in her pack. In an adaptation, after the bloodbath, she retrieved a small array of knives on a vest, which she wore until she died. She also had a large pocket full of big knives. The smallest knife was the one she pulled out to try and kill a tribute at the feast.

Clove had a large selection of knives, which were attached to the inside of her jacket. The weapons gave Clove a big advantage because of her skill with knives. In both the Training Center and during the Games, she proved herself to be able to both throw them accurately and use them in close combat, as shown when she forced a tribute into submission. She, along with the other Careers, had her choice of weapons to use, until the supplies were destroyed.

Clove was strong, sadistic, arrogant, violent, dangerous, and powerful, characteristics of a typical Career. Clove was also slightly unhinged, which made her a feared opponent. She had a strong hatred for a specific tribute, particularly due to her higher score from the Gamemakers. When she captured that tribute, she boasted about how her team killed another tribute and joyfully stated she was going to make her death a slow and painful one, exemplifying her psychotic and sadistic nature.

Clove was also intelligent, supporting an idea to keep a tribute alive to get to another, and was smart enough to go to a lake to heal her tracker jacker wounds, and was also instinctive enough to go back to the Cornucopia instead of chasing a tribute. While Clove was confident in her abilities to hold her own and take on other tributes, this facade collapsed when faced with overwhelming force. Completely terrified, Clove was too cowardly to own up to her mockery when at his mercy and ultimately was only able to scream for help in her final moments.

Clove, like most Careers, was strong, healthy, brawny and fit. In the source material, she was described as being heavier than another tribute. It was heavily implied that Clove was larger. In a nightmare, Clove turned into a wolf mutt with dark fur sprouting from her skin. With the wolf mutts fur resembling the tributes hair it is likely that Clove herself had dark hair. In an adaptation, Clove was smaller and younger, had dark hair, usually in a ponytail or braid, dark eyes, and some freckles.

Clove and her district partner were allies. During the feast, her ally showed concern for Clove and distress at her death. As her ally ran toward a mortally wounded Clove, his voice sounded pained, and despite its futility, he begged Clove to stay with him as she died. Though both were cruel toward the other tributes, they had formed an emotional connection with each other. However, in an adaptation, they seemed to have no relationship with each other beyond that of allies. Her ally did not come to Clove's aid during the feast, although she screamed his name.

Due to being a Career, Clove naturally had an extremely negative relationship with another tribute, as both considered each other enemies. Clove envied that tribute's training score and hated her for it, more so than her fellow Careers did. In fact, Clove had purposely targeted and almost killed that tribute twice, while the other tributes, including the other Careers, couldn't at all. At the feast, Clove seemed very joyful after finally subduing the tribute, and reveled sadistically at the prospect of torturing her to death.

Clove's name might be derived from cleaving, which means to split with a sharp instrument. Cleaving also refers to the splitting of minerals and stone.