Coriolanus Snow was an autocrat who ruled as the tyrannical President of Panem for more than two decades. In his youth, he was known by a nickname. Born into a wealthy family, by the time of his upbringing the family name had begun to fade into insignificance. At a young age, he would lose both of his parents. He later attended an academy, where he mentored the winning tribute of the 10th Hunger Games. He later moved on to advanced military studies at a university and served a brief stint in the Peacekeepers, demonstrating such aptitude that he tested successfully for an elite program to become an officer, though ultimately, he did not pursue this path. While attending the university and studying advanced military strategy, he also served as an apprentice Gamemaker, quickly instituting several new reforms to the Hunger Games, including the creation of the Victors' Village.

Snow would gradually eliminate his enemies one by one, until he finally ascended to the Presidency, the highest position offered in Panem and an office he presided, unchallenged, for over 25 years. During this time, Panem became more authoritarian, with opponents of the regime regularly executed, and the Districts kept in line through the use of propaganda, intimidation, and brutality. Major uprisings did not occur as a result, with many people being too afraid of the consequences they could face if they ever tried to rebel. However, following the 74th Hunger Games, the system that had kept the country in a state of fear and repression for decades finally began to come apart. Events that took place in the arena gave life to a new and determined movement to end the regime. As the Capitol began to crumble around him, Snow desperately tried to cling onto power, but in the end, he was unable to defeat the rebels. Following the defeat of the Capitol, Snow would face the wrath of the same people he had terrorized for so long.

He is the main antagonist of a trilogy and is the main protagonist of a prequel novel.

As a youth, Snow had been raised on the belief that his family name meant prestige and power. His experience, however, was tempered by the fact that he was an orphan and that the loss his family's fortune meant that he had spent much of his early life in poverty, though he concealed this. He was a studious student, one of the top-performing students at the academy. He had a tendency to fixate on a single problem, convinced that if he could just fix it, then he could fix everything about his life.

His initial interactions with his tribute were based entirely on the idea that he needed to make her feel welcome. Over time, however, their interactions blossomed into genuine affection. He eventually did come to love her, but in the end chose to eschew love in exchange for power and ambition. Filled with ideas of control and power, he made it his ambition to rule over all others.

By the time he was president, any of the few positive qualities he had from his youth were largely unrecognizable. He had become exactly what he had set out to achieve. He was a ruthlessly cruel, sadistic, wrathful, violent, greedy, arrogant, power-hungry, wicked and purely and utterly evil man, one obsessed with keeping the perfection of the established order and maintaining absolutely no respect or care for human life. He was an extremely tyrannical, megalomaniacal, and egomaniacal ruler who ruled over Panem with an iron fist. He constantly threatened and killed people who stood in his way to holding absolute power. He was not hesitant to use people for his personal advantage.

His obsession with perfection arises out of his paranoia due to his fear of losing power. As a result, he murdered allies and enemies alike, usually by poisoning them, and in his effort to throw off suspicion he drunk his own murderous poison from the same cup and was left with a mouthful of bloody sores which are the only outward sign of his insanity. He uses the thick perfume of genetically enhanced roses in his lapel to cover the scent of his bloody mouth.

Noticeably, Snow was an extremely calm and reserved man, never visibly losing his temper at any point. He remained completely in control, both figuratively and literally, throughout a conversation and maintained his serenity even if his life were in danger or if he were facing a known enemy. He had absolutely no lapses when it came to discussing the execution or omission of other people. He also suggested that his successor was more dangerous than he was.

His name and his white roses symbolize his mental need to appear flawless, despite his obvious flaws. Despite all this, he claims that he is not wasteful. He has a very clear understanding of the districts' emotions towards the Capitol, and how fear doesn't make them back down if they have hope- which he allows, in a very limited form, as a motivator. He'll only kill people for well-defined reasons. He is also willing to take the life of children for his own safety. He was obviously highly intelligent and cunning as evidenced by his manipulation and his ability to maintain control for at least 25 years. At the very least, he was quite capable of admitting that he had been overwhelmed, outwitted and defeated because of some of his own mistakes and shortcomings.

To the very end, Snow showed no remorse for his tyranny and murderous desire for power, often acting self-righteous and blaming the disruption of the status quo, reasoning that for all his authoritarian propaganda he believed the games insured order and control.

The President was a small, thin man, with paper-white hair and thick lips that seem pulled across his face. His lips were thought to be changed, to make them look fuller and more appealing. He always smelled strongly of genetically enhanced roses. He always wore a white rose in his lapel to cover the scent of blood. His eyes were similar to a snake's. Overall, his appearance was quite snake-like. His trademark sign was a single white rose.

As an 18-year-old, Coriolanus Snow was very good-looking. He had pale blue eyes, blond curls, a trim and athletic physique, and excellent posture. He was not as tall as he could have been since malnourishment during the war stinted his growth.

Snow resided in a huge mansion where he sometimes hosted parties. It is described as being large enough "to get lost in." The mansion contains many rooms. There is also an internal greenhouse for Snow's roses in a section of the mansion.

He is known to have a granddaughter. This also means he must have had at least one child.

After a certain Hunger Games, he was angry that two tributes managed to both be crowned victors but acted calm while visiting. He pushed one enough to agree not to lie to each other. While the tributes were in a later Hunger Games arena, one managed to destroy it, further angering him, and he subsequently ordered a district to be firebombed, destroying it and wiping out the majority of the population. He continued to engage in a twisted game of psychological manipulation, though methods such as leaving roses, torturing a victor and forcing him to make various interviews, and hijacking that victor to turn his love into a weapon for the purpose of killing the other victor.

After his trial, he was the only one to offer condolences for a death and revealed his successor's role in a bombing. However, this was most likely out of a desire to get revenge, rather than being rooted in remorse and a desire to atone for his wrongdoing. The victor subsequently realized that Snow was right.

Another likely factor in his antagonistic relationship was his past relationship with the first victor from a certain district. His time with her left him with a deep bitterness for both her and that district. He likely began associating the new victor with the old one, as she also made a big first impression. The parallels continued, such as when the new victor sang. This hatred would only have increased when the new victor was dubbed "The Mockingjay," the bird species which he had developed a hatred for during his time as a Peacekeeper. Furthermore, a recording of the new victor singing a song, which had been written by the old victor, would be used as a propaganda weapon. This in particular would likely have infuriated him, as the song was a reminder of his final encounter with the old victor.

Despite his hatred, Snow always showed the respect of keeping their deal and being totally honest, something that was recognized to the point that he was ultimately believed over his successor. In the end, the victor realized that despite their mutual hatred for each other, the successor was worse, and chose to kill the successor instead when given the chance to finally kill Snow. Snow laughed at these actions, his final act before his death.

In his youth, he and his cousin lived together, cared for by his grandmother. Although the two were cousins, their relationship was really more like that of brother and sister. He relied on his cousin and despaired at the idea that people might take advantage of her sweetness and vulnerability. The two survived the bombings together during a war. His cousin disliked the Hunger Games and the pressure that they put on him.

Later in life, Snow seemed to have drifted apart from his cousin due to a combination of her extreme body modification and political pragmatism. However, the fact that she was still alive despite her dissent suggests that he still cared enough to spare her. His cousin appeared to have been disgusted by what Snow eventually became.

He first met a classmate when they were both young. As the classmate and his family were "new money," having originally come from a district, they represented a threat. Despite this, while most of the children took to baiting and belittling him, Snow simply ignored him. In either, the fact that Snow hadn't belittled him meant that by the time they were both older, the classmate was at least on speaking terms with him. The two both ended up as mentors in the 10th Hunger Games, and for some reason, Snow found that he kept covering for the classmate when he made disparaging remarks about the Hunger Games.

To Snow's chagrin, their continued contact began to give the impression that they were close friends and he was forced to enter the arena to rescue him. Ultimately, the classmate came to think of Snow as a brother and when Snow was forced to go the Peacekeepers, saw to it that he got his diploma for graduating. Snow, however, could not countenance the classmate's rebel activities and thus betrayed him, though he did not realize until it was too late just how much trouble he had landed him in. Afterwards, he played on the classmate's parents beliefs that the two of them were great friends by allowing them to accept him as their heir and finance his entire lifestyle.

After the death of his son, the classmate's father took on Coriolanus Snow as his heir. He could not legally adopt Snow, as Snow would have been unwilling to give up his name in any case. Despite this, Snow treated him somewhat like a father. He paid to fund his lifestyle and enrollment at the university. The two were very compatible and he never questioned any of Snow's expenditures, nor additions to his wardrobe. He seemed pleased at those times when Snow asked him for advice.

He first encountered a Head Gamemaker during a class field trip when he was nine years old, and he watched in horror as she melted the flesh off a lab rat. He first met her in person shortly before the 10th Hunger Games. She seemed impressed by his nerve, saying that he could one day be a Gamemaker. She said that he understood the importance of keeping the Games alive and that she had a good feeling about him.

Snow was initially pleased at his good fortune at finding an apparent ally. However, things took a turn after she set a class project. She correctly sussed out that his partner had not touched the proposal, setting snake muttations upon her and deeply unsettling Snow. Afterwards, Snow expressed his horror of what had happened to his cousin, who urged him to avoid her, but doing so was easier said than done.

When his classmate sneaked into the arena, the Head Gamemaker made Snow go in to rescue him. She was unapologetic about his experience in going to the arena and killing a tribute, and set him a paper, telling him to reflect on the themes of chaos, control and the social contract required for survival. After the Hunger Games, when Snow enrolled in the Peacekeepers, the classmate revealed that she had spoken in Snow's favor, stating that Snow's actions in cheating for his tribute had only been a piece of faulty strategy. This led Snow to realize that he might still have an ally in her, and so he wrote her a letter. He later sent her a jabberjay with a recording of the classmate describing more planned treasonous activity, which resulted in the classmate's execution. Ultimately, Snow returned and began attending university thanks to her machinations. Still impressed by his potential, she saw to it that he received an honorable discharge from the Peacekeepers. She was impressed by what he had learned in the districts and had him study directly under her at the university, additionally granting him a position as an apprentice Gamemaker.

His namesake is a William Shakespeare tragedy, based on a famed Roman general. His surname calls to mind the color white, which he is frequently associated with throughout a trilogy. White typically symbolizes innocence and purity, but it's also commonly associated with death.

At 18 years old, he was the youngest person to ever pass the Peacekeeper officer candidate test.

If his younger sister had survived, he would be the eldest of two siblings, with his sister being about five years his junior.

He is the only character to appear in every book and film so far.