District 13 is one of the thirteen districts of Panem, and for a 75-year period between the Dark Days and Second Rebellion, an independent nation. Located in far northeastern part of the country, District 13 was widely thought to have been destroyed by the Capitol in the Dark Days.

For most of its history, the general public of Panem was aware that District 13's industry was graphite mining. While the district did in fact mine the substance on a small scale, their primary industry was actually nuclear science and technology. After the district was supposedly destroyed, the Capitol promoted graphite mining as 13's only industry as part of propaganda. This is similar to how another district's main industry is purportedly masonry, but the Capitol attempted to conceal its other primary function.

District 13 was founded as one of the original thirteen administrative districts of the nation of Panem. The country's military-industrial complex was originally based there, and it was a center for the development and production of nuclear weapons, technology, and science as well as the primary manufacturer of military equipment and arms for the country's military forces. The region also possessed a number of graphite mines, and the extraction of this material was a secondary industry.

Along with the other twelve districts, District 13 presumably suffered oppression by the Capitol, leading to dissent. This culminated in the rebellion of the Dark Days, with all thirteen districts rising up. District 13's status as the primary weapons manufacturer made it a formidable threat and a principal benefactor to the rebel war effort.
Over the next three years, District 13 and the other rebel districts were able to at least fight on par technologically against the Capitol and loyalist forces thanks to District 13's military equipment. However, following a failed invasion, the tide turned against the rebel forces. Realizing that a total rebel victory was unachievable, District 13 launched a clandestine mission that saw them secure a significant portion of the Capitol nuclear stockpile. Following this, they threatened to destroy the city. Knowing the Capitol possessed a secondary nuclear stockpile, District 13 negotiated a secret ceasefire deal under threat of mutually assured destruction: By allowing District 13 to quietly secede from Panem and become an independent state, the district would withdraw all support for the rebels in the other districts and pretend to have been completely destroyed. The Capitol reluctantly agreed.
District 13 then evacuated all of its forces and population to a series of underground bunkers, while the Capitol obliterated all above-ground infrastructure through repeated aerial bombardment and cut off all outside access. This allowed them to falsely display its ruins to the rest of Panem. With the loss of their military support, the rebellion collapsed. Despite failing to secure freedom for the entire nation, District 13 would continue to fortify its position over the following decades.
However, the district struggled in its newfound underground reality. There was a pox outbreak some years prior, significantly damaging the population and rendering many of the survivors infertile. Unsurprisingly, there were very few children. In order to survive, the people had developed innovative technologies that allowed them to maximize available resources, as well as a strict, militaristic lifestyle that emphasized frugality and a constant readiness to defend themselves against potential attacks.
Retaining control of its arsenal of nuclear weaponry and its non-aggression pact with the Capitol, the district's populace continued developing and manufacturing new types of weaponry for its armed forces in preparation to eventually liberate the remaining twelve districts. Such an opportunity would not come until several decades after the Dark Days, when the government came into contact and aligned itself with a network of resistant forces. Together, this secret conspiracy made gradual preparations as they awaited the right opportunity to ignite a new revolution.

District 13 is first mentioned during a speech prior to the commencement of a reaping. During the speech, the story was told of how the districts of Panem rose, and how District 13 was obliterated during the Dark Days. It would later be recalled that graphite mining was an industry in District 13 before it was obliterated, and that when the district was occasionally shown on television, it was still smoldering from the toxic bombs dropped on it.

District 13 is not mentioned again until an encounter with two refugees from an uprising in another district. The two mentioned they were trying to reach District 13, initially causing confusion as to why they would want to go to a place that was nothing but smoldering ruins. The duo proceeded to explain their theory that the destruction story might not be completely true: whenever the Capitol shows television footage of District 13, the ruins are indeed always smoldering. While this does tie in with the Capitol's official position that the area is still uninhabitable, they realized that the exact same mockingjay made an appearance in every broadcast, even in ones supposedly filmed years apart. The two concluded that the Capitol never actually shows the current state of the district, but simply replays old footage.
As such, they believe that the district is still inhabited, with the people living underground. They also express their belief that the Capitol may have in fact left District 13 alone in the first place because of the district's specialty in nuclear weaponry. Following a rescue from a Hunger Games arena, it was learned that not only was District 13 still inhabited, but it was being used as the base for a new rebellion.

After a Quarter Quell, several individuals were rescued and brought to District 13, along with survivors from the bombing of another district. Upon arrival, a fuller history of the place was learned: Due to the non-aggression pact they established with the Capitol seventy-five years earlier, District 13 has remained politically independent and isolated from the rest of Panem. In exchange for this freedom, they promised not to attack the Capitol and start a nuclear war, terms that the Capitol was willing to accept. As a result of their political isolation, District 13 has never participated in The Hunger Games.
The individuals subsequently began training for their roles in the Second Rebellion as part of their service for District 13's war machine.
During an interview, a warning was issued on live TV that the Capitol was going to bomb the district. This unexpected warning gave them a ten-minute head start to evacuate the populace to the fortified bunkers in the district's lower levels.
District 13 would go on to play a valuable role in securing freedom for the entire nation throughout the Second Rebellion, through its roles as a weapons supplier and communications center. The district also provided air support to the rebels. Following the victory of the rebellion and the establishment of the Constitutional Republic, District 13 was presumably reintegrated into Panem and its above-ground infrastructure rebuilt.

Prior to the Dark Days, District 13 was originally one of the thirteen districts of Panem. The governance during this time period is largely unknown.
Following its secession during the Dark Days, District 13 became an independent, albeit underground state. It appears to be modelled as a republic, as the district is led by an executive named the President. As District 13, alongside the other twelve districts, were fighting for freedom in both wars, it can be assumed that District 13 was a democracy, at least in principle. Due to the unique circumstance, however, of the district's existence and the constant threat posed by the Capitol, the government operated more as a stratocracy, a government ruled by military chiefs. The entire citizen population was drafted into the service or support of the district's armed forces and the government overall taking on a militaristic form. This lifestyle was borne out of necessity and for the greater benefit of everyone.
District 13 is led by a President, who serves as the presumed head of state and government and commander-in-chief of the district's armed forces. How the President is selected is not specified, although an election of some form is likely. Whether District 13 possesses a legislature or a judiciary remains unspecified.

Citizens live a highly regimented life: Every morning, each citizen gets a temporary tattoo on the underside of their arm that shows their daily schedule. The schedule displays, in 24-hour time, where to be and what activities are to be performed at specific times. After a certain time, the ink breaks down and can be washed off in preparation for the following day.
Activities such as meals - which are normally taken communally - are scheduled regularly every day and participated in by all citizens. Other activities can vary significantly and depend on several factors: Children under the age of 14 attend school. Depending on their background, children may have other duties in addition to schooling. If you are over 14, you qualify for the rank of "soldier" and receive military training in addition to some educational sessions. Activities for adults appear to be more specialized. At some point during the day, citizens are given 30 minutes of downtime with family.
Although schedules are not usually subject to change, special conditions could be negotiated.

Weddings are relatively low-key events; the couple signs a marriage certificate and they're assigned a compartment to share. Due to their strict, frugal lifestyle, the citizens are not much prone to celebration, and it seems they have no holidays at all.

District 13 was the primary weapons supplier. This made them a formidable threat to the Capitol's power when war broke out. Its military might and arsenal played a crucial role in the Dark Days and the Second Rebellion, making the other districts' armed insurrections possible. The district's other primary industry, nuclear weapons development and research, also saw it producing a significant stockpile of nuclear missiles. These weapons of mass destruction would be instrumental in allowing it to propose the ceasefire permitting its independence in the first place.
During its 75 years as an independent nation, District 13 continued building upon its armed forces, developing special weaponry and new military technology. In addition to its seized pile of nuclear weapons, District 13 also possessed a fleet of hovercraft, with some of it formerly belonging to the Capitol's Peacekeeping Force. Notably, however, District 13's hovercraft appear to be less sophisticated than the Capitol-derived variants.
All able-bodied citizens aged fourteen years and above are obliged to serve in the armed forces.

According to a map, District 13 is located in the northeast of Panem. Its territory is primarily centered around a region. This location ties into its secondary industry of graphite mining, as notable sources of graphite are located there. Similarly, in the region that District 13 occupies, historically there were nuclear reactors and supplementary nuclear research and technology facilities.
District 13 borders three other districts.
Before the end of the Dark Days, District 13 existed on the surface like all of the other districts. It is unknown whether the district was affluent or poor, although given its district industry and its status as the then center of the military-industrial complex, the former is highly likely. The district was likely more urbanized than rural.
Following its independence, the entirety of the District's surface infrastructure was leveled by a series of intense bombing raids as stipulated in the ceasefire deal. The district in turn relocated its populace, industry, and military to a vast series of underground bunkers. When these bunkers were constructed and their extent is unknown. Similarly, it is unknown if District 13 comprises just a singular massive bunker or a large central bunker with a number of smaller satellite bunkers throughout the district. What is known, however, is that the underground bunkers were both large and sophisticated enough to be self-sustaining for a population estimated to be numbering in the few ten of thousands for three-quarters of a century with no outside help. District 13 was even able to take on survivors from another district with little to no difficulty. Additionally, the bunkers housed a vast quantity of military equipment, weapons, vehicles, and supplies along with factories for continual production. The bunkers were fortified enough to withstand significant attacks, with only the top layers of the underground complex damaged or destroyed by bunker-buster missiles during an attack in the Second Rebellion.

District 13 is the only district to never take part in a Hunger Games event.
It and one other are the only districts with dual industries, though no other district knew about its second primary industry. However, nuclear energy and graphite mining are closely related, as graphite is one of the most important components of a nuclear reactor.
In its prime, District 13 may have been one of the larger districts: One reason the destruction story was doubted was that the mines themselves were small and few in number, and the population of 13 was known to be much larger than what small scale mining actually required.
District 13 is the only known district to be located underground, though it originally existed above ground before the Dark Days.
District 13 is one of the three known districts to be bombed during the Second Rebellion.
There was an epidemic a few years prior that caused significant population loss.
Due to District 13 not participating in the Hunger Games, no official arena wear for District 13 was produced. Because of this, it is difficult to determine what the district's color could be. However, considering the district's dual industries before the Dark Days and the district's evolution into a military-centric nation, the district's color seems to be dark silver gray.