Enobaria is a female Career Tribute from District 2 and the victor of the 62nd Hunger Games. She competed again in the Third Quarter Quell against other victors.

During her Games, she became famous for ripping another tribute's throat out with her bare teeth. She later altered her teeth into sharp points, like fangs, and had them inlaid with gold.

After getting selected for the 75th Hunger Games, Enobaria showed extreme enthusiasm and an apparent bloodlust. While training, she fought another tribute to see her skills with a sword. She later joined hands on stage with the other victors before the start of the Quell to show their strength, though she was reluctant at first.

At the start of the bloodbath, she made it to the Cornucopia. When an arrow was shot at her, she was able to dodge it by diving back into the water. The Career alliance stayed at the Cornucopia. During the bloodbath she killed one tribute and possibly more.

Throughout the Games, she and the other Careers stalked another group of tributes. The Careers attacked, leading to several deaths. Enobaria attempted to stab a tribute with her sword, but another tribute stepped in the way and received the blow before she and another Career left, then stalked the group again. Together, they chased two tributes across the island, until one tribute dug out the other's tracker to make her appear dead so the two would pass by. At an unknown point in time, they split up. One was killed in a battle, leaving Enobaria and another as the only remaining Career Tributes.

Enobaria fought her way to a tribute and managed to stab him so he could not complete his mission of destroying the arena. She was chased off by another tribute. By the time Enobaria and the other tribute had made it back, the arena had been destroyed and the Games were stopped, leaving only six tributes alive. She was one of the three tributes picked up by a hovercraft.

One tribute was able to rescue several others. However, Enobaria and two other tributes were apprehended. It was speculated that she was let go home as they were unable to retrieve her in a rescue mission. When her district was conquered and it was shown that they were needed in the rebellion, Enobaria joined the rebels. Enobaria's life was spared by the rebels because of a deal, since another tribute felt that was only fair.

After the war was finished, the only remaining victors were called to discuss having a final Hunger Games. A vote of the remaining victors was held. Enobaria said "yes" to another Hunger Games. It is likely Enobaria went back to living her life in District 2.

Like most Career tributes, Enobaria is strong, aggressive, and bloodthirsty. However, her approval to have a final Hunger Games indicates that her vicious nature may have manifested from hatred and a sense of desired revenge. Also, despite her viciousness, there is no indication that she considered the Hunger Games to be a competition of honor. She showed a soft spot when she joined hands with the other tributes before they were forced to compete in the games.

As a victor from District 2, she likely killed a considerable amount of tributes in the 62nd and 75th Hunger Games. In the 62nd Hunger Games, she killed a male tribute by ripping out his throat. In the 75th Hunger Games, she killed a tribute with a sword.

Enobaria's most distinctive feature is her teeth, which have been cosmetically altered so each tooth ends in a sharp point, and are inlaid with gold. She is physically strong due to the training she received in District 2.