An escort was a citizen of the Capitol who selected and accompanied the tributes and mentors from their assigned district leading up to the annual Hunger Games.

Every year, a district's escort selected one boy and one girl to participate in the Hunger Games by pulling their names from the reaping balls. Due to their Capitol upbringing, they saw these occasions as celebrations and were typically oblivious to the districts' suffering.

After the reaping, escorts were responsible for making sure that tributes and mentors kept to the schedule throughout the week leading up to the Hunger Games. This began on the train to the Capitol and ran up to the tributes' transport to the arena. In the Training Center, they took their tributes down to the gymnasium, and the day before the tributes' interviews, the escort had four hours of time allotted to help each tribute present themselves onstage. They were also known to talk to sponsors, but only mentors could seal sponsor deals.

If one of the escort's tributes survived the Games and became a victor, they would greet the victor in the hospital upon their recovery. Later that evening, the victor's support team would rise up from beneath the stage for the closing ceremonies. The escort would be the second one introduced, following the prep team.

The escort's job also included escorting any new victors from their district on that year's Victory Tour. After this, the escort could be promoted to a higher-ranking district for the next year's Games, or they could choose to stay with the district that they were with previously.

At the time of the 10th Hunger Games, the position of an escort had not yet been created. Instead, tributes were chosen by their district's mayor, when their names were pulled out of sacks.

From the 25th Hunger Games to the 50th Hunger Games, District 12 had a female escort. The 50th Games was the second Quarter Quell, so the twist was that twice the number of tributes would be reaped that year: two male and two female from each district. As a result, escorts each called out four names.

Each district had their own escort. All of these escorts were female. This has led some to speculate that it was an exclusively female profession. Some speculate that the escort position was introduced after the 10th Hunger Games' reaping in order to prevent interference from district citizens with personal investment, goals and vendettas not part of The Capitol’s desires.

It was noticed how often the children of victors were reaped, theorizing that the Capitol was likely manipulating the reapings to threaten or punish victors. Given how escorts are in charge of selecting tributes from the reaping balls, it's likely that they play an active part in these plots. This indicates that the escort position may have been implemented as a way for the Capitol to deliberately manipulate the reaping to control the victors.