Fila was the male tribute from District 3 who participated in the 74th Hunger Games.

He was 14 years old. His occupation was tribute. His home was District 3. His weapons were land mines and a spear. His fate was deceased.

His gender was male. His height was 5'6.

He appeared in the book The Hunger Games and in the film The Hunger Games.

In the Tribute Parade, the District 3 tributes wore silver costumes and silver headdresses to represent their technology industry.

During training, he was first seen working with another tribute to create a fire, and quickly backed away when the fire ignited. He also showed concern when his district partner was injured.

In the interviews, he wore a yellow suit with a black shirt. It was said that there was nothing special about his interview.

He survived the initial Cornucopia bloodbath. He grappled over a weapon but was shoved to the ground. He was later seen fighting over a backpack. He managed to survive and escape into the forest.

During the Games, he had joined the Career pack and booby-trapped the area right around the Cornucopia with land mines he had dug up and then re-armed, a skill likely due to his district's focus on technology. The minefield was discovered after another tribute stole supplies. In the film, he was left behind to guard the supplies.

When the supplies were stolen, he followed the thief into the woods. The Careers' supplies were then destroyed by an explosion that set off the mines. He returned and saw the destroyed supplies.

When the Careers returned, he was confronted, stripped of his spear, and killed. He placed 9th out of 24 tributes.

In the novels, he was described as having ashen skin, which was possibly a general characteristic of his district's people.

He participated in the Cornucopia bloodbath and survived. He survived alone near the Cornucopia until the surviving Careers found him and allowed him into their pack in exchange for him rewiring the mines around their stash of supplies. As a tribute from District 3, he was skilled in electronics. He was also armed with a spear while with the Careers. When supplies were stolen, he followed the thief in an attempt to kill her, but inadvertently left the stash unguarded. After the supplies were destroyed, he returned and tried to explain, which led to his death.