Finnick and Annie's wedding was held in District 13, uniting Finnick Odair and Annie Cresta.

The wedding had more purpose than just uniting the couple. A proposer wanted to make another propo, but instead of it being filled with fights and campaign, its purpose was to entertain and enlighten. Knowing that "everybody loves a wedding", it was decided that this wedding was perfect for a new propo. This also sent a message that the population was safe and happy.

At first, when the wedding was decided, there was a lot of disagreement about how it should be celebrated. The proposer and the president didn't have the same idea of what a wedding was, so there were many discussions about how big the budget should be and how many guests should be invited. In District 13, a wedding was two people signing a piece of paper and being assigned a new compartment, whereas the proposer thought a wedding should be hundreds of people dressed in finery for a three-day celebration. It took a lot of negotiations, but after a while, they reached an agreement.
When it was announced that children were wanted to sing the traditional wedding song, practically every child came forward to take up the task. There was also no shortage of volunteers to make decorations, and people chatted excitedly about the event while they ate in the dining hall.

The bride ended up picking a green silk dress. A prep team also altered a suit for the groom to wear.

The ceremony was held in the dining hall; the couple were the only ones in special attire, as everyone else wore their standard-issue uniforms. The decorations were made from autumn foliage, and the music was provided by a newly formed children's choir, along with a lone fiddler. The ceremony was conducted by a survivor.

Other traditions were incorporated. For example, a net woven from long grass covered the couple during their vows, then they touched each other's lips with salt water, and the children sang an ancient traditional wedding song, likening marriage to a sea voyage. Finally, the couple sealed their union with a kiss.

After the ceremony, a toast was made. The fiddler then played songs while people began to dance, and many others joined them for a line dance. At first one observer stood off to the side, clapping along to the rhythm, but after a challenge, she sought out a dance with her younger sister. They made good partners because winter evenings had given them a lot of practice. The refugees eagerly taught the steps to their hosts.

After the dancing, four people wheeled a huge wedding cake out from a side room. It was beautiful, blue-green like the sea with white-tipped waves made from icing. There were fish, sea flowers, sailboats, and seals all swam across its surface. An observer instantly knew that the decoration was done by a specific person's hands. Another revealed that frosting the cake was therapeutic for that person, who was still fighting an uphill battle to recover.

The groom was greatly transformed by the wedding. While the bride was imprisoned, he had been a "broken young man", but the wedding allowed his "self-effacing humor and an easygoing nature" to be displayed for the first time. The bride was also lost in a "daze of happiness" after the wedding. She was more often mentally present, and the few times when she did "slip away", the groom could easily call her back just by talking to her.

After the cake decorator got to work, he felt slightly better. He remembered about an act of kindness from the past. He was able to hold a conversation, and he even had a conversation without breaking down.

The wedding was also appreciated by the citizens, because they didn't usually have holidays or parties.

An observer mentions that "being happy for the couple" is one of the few things she doesn't have to pretend.
At first, the observer thought that by wedding, the proposer meant that she had to marry someone, which disgusted her.
The fiddler at the wedding escaped a bombing with his instrument.