Greasy Sae is a bony old woman who sold bowls of hot soup from a large kettle at the Hob in District 12. She traded often with two main characters and they made a conscious effort to keep on good terms with her, as she could consistently be counted on to buy wild dog. One of her winter specialties included mice meat, pig entrails, and tree bark. She also made a wild dog and rhubarb stew.
Greasy Sae has a granddaughter who wandered the Hob and was generally treated as a pet by the people there, receiving scraps of food from their stands. After the Second Rebellion, Greasy Sae cooked for a main character in her home and helped her recuperate, bringing her granddaughter along.
The first time the two main characters killed a deer, they had taken the carcass into the Hob, where people began to bid on parts and cut off pieces without permission. Greasy Sae had to intervene and send them to the butcher.
About six months before the reaping, Greasy Sae made a below-standard soup using stock from the bones of a wild dog the characters had shot a week earlier.
On their way home from the woods on the morning of the reaping, the characters traded half of their greens with Greasy Sae for some paraffin chunks.
Greasy Sae started up a collection in the Hob to help sponsor two characters during the Hunger Games. One character helped repay that kindness by continuing to shop in the Hob and making it a point to visit as many vendors as possible. After the Hob was burned down, one character wanted to check on Greasy Sae, but the idea was shut down. Greasy Sae was one of the people made a priority to help feed during food shortages.
Greasy Sae was among the survivors evacuated after District 12 was bombed. She worked in the kitchen in District 13, which she liked well enough, but she noted that the cooks were lacking in imagination. She was happy to receive real beef, noting that it was far better than the wild dog she used to be provided with. When people were called together to tell stories for inspiration, Greasy Sae was among them. During a wedding, she got up and started dancing.
Following the war, Greasy Sae was one of the few hundred people who returned to District 12. Once a main character returned home, Greasy Sae came over in the morning and evening to cook and do light housekeeping. She also brought her granddaughter, who appeared to live in her own world. The character was unsure whether this arrangement occurred because Greasy Sae was being neighborly or because she had been paid. Greasy Sae encouraged the character to go hunting for the first time in many months and updated her with news. Later, another character showed up at the door with Greasy Sae.