Jessup Diggs was the male tribute from District 12 in the 10th Hunger Games. He was a strong-looking individual who had been employed in the mines. He became the ally of the female tribute from his district for the Games.

He grew up in his district. At the reaping, he shook hands with his district partner. When the tributes were taken to the Capitol, he helped his ally descend from the transport. At the Capitol Zoo, he was bitten in the neck by a furry animal in the dark. From then on, he and his ally took turns sleeping. During the tour of the Capitol Arena before the Games, his assigned mentor gave him cream for his neck. When bombs exploded, he protected his mentor by throwing his body over her. At the interviews, he easily lifted his mentor over his head, demonstrating his strength. The night before the Games began, he stopped eating and began acting funny because he had actually been bitten by a rabid animal.

When the Games began, he was one of the few tributes that sprinted towards the weapons, though he soon dispersed. He and his ally hid out in the tunnels for the first and most of the second days. They moved from spot to spot, with him getting sicker as time went on.

During the afternoon of the second day, he and his ally emerged from hiding with his ally fleeing from him, as the rabies had ailed him. He chased his ally, though he had trouble keeping his balance. When a water bottle arrived, he destroyed it, agitated. This led to the realization he had hydrophobia as a result of his inability to swallow from rabies. To distract him, his mentor sent many bottles of water to trigger this. He fell as he tried to run from the water bottles, and the sound of breaking bones could be heard. His ally comforted him in his final moments. After he died, his ally cleaned his face and covered it from the audience. His body was later lined up among the other corpses.

He had a fringe of black hair. He was bigger than average for a tribute from his district, and strong-looking. He had already been employed in the mines, contributing to his griminess, but attempted to wash before the reaping. When he was afflicted with rabies during the Games, he was stiff-limbed and feverish with excitement, with foam bubbling over his lips. The rabies also loaned a maniac speed to his already powerful body, though his coordination was diminished, and he opened gashes on his body because of it.