A merchant is a small business owner. In District 12, this specifically referred to a small merchant class that, unlike most professions, also doubled as an identity— one that was often contrasted with the people of the Seam.

Merchants lived above their stores in the town square, and they had gated yards like residents of the Seam. Their dwellings were located about a half-mile walk from the Victors' Village.

The most notable merchant business was the bakery.

Other businesses included an apothecary shop, a butcher shop, a grocery, a shoe shop, and a sweet shop.

As the district's wealthiest citizens, merchant children did not typically need to take out tesserae, so their names were not entered into the reaping extra times in exchange for grain and oil. This could partially explain why out of the district's known Hunger Games tributes, only two were merchants.

Like most parts of the district, the merchant sector was destroyed in a bombing, and most of its people were killed. Fewer than a dozen merchants escaped, so the vast majority of survivors were from the Seam.

People belonging to the merchant class were typically described as having blond hair and blue eyes. Since their families were wealthier than their Seam counterparts, merchant children rarely had to take out tesserae. However, merchants were still poor even compared to the citizens of other districts, and especially compared to the Capitol. One merchant family often had to eat stale bread because they couldn't afford to eat their own expensive bakery goods.

Merchant and Seam children attended school together, preparing them for the possibility of employment in the mines after their last reaping. But while Seam children grew up unemployed, merchants worked in their parents' shops well before the age of 18.

Merchant goods were far too expensive for most Seam residents to buy, so their businesses were probably patronized most often by other merchants and peacekeepers. Victors were also known to use their winnings to buy from merchants, but since the district had so few victors, this likely did not make up a substantial portion of their income.