Poison is a deadly substance that can kill anything that ingests it. It is a favorite weapon of a powerful political figure.

During a specific Hunger Games, a tribute was given a compact to sneak rat poison from a zoo into the arena as a weapon. Other tributes died after drinking from poisoned water sources. The discovery of this cheating forced a sentence of service.

During another Hunger Games, the arena's flora, water and many of the muttations were poisonous. Some tributes died of the arena's poisons on the first day while charcoal tablets saved another, although it left them sick. One tribute's backpack contained a large bottle of an antidote. Poison barbs from a porcupine mutt later killed several tributes despite efforts to save one using an antidote.

During that same Games, one tribute used a blowgun loaded with darts dipped in the arena's poisonous substances as a weapon, killing others. The tribute showed another how she made her poison by mashing up handfuls of poisonous berries into a juicy paste and draining the juice into a vial.

One of the traps of a later Hunger Games was a poisonous fog. A tribute sacrificed herself to it. The surviving tributes who were affected used salt water to leech out the poison and an ointment to treat the scabs and scars.

After an early Games, a figure took rat poison and slipped it into another's medicine. When presenting the personal effects, the figure deliberately slid the bottles into the trash, knowing an addict would later retrieve them, ingest the rat poison, and die. This was the first murder with what would become a signature weapon.

Over the next decades, the figure would rise to power and maintained control by poisoning allies and enemies alike who posed a threat. The figure often drank from the same poisoned glass to deflect suspicion. Although antidotes saved the figure's life, it left mouth sores that wouldn't heal. Roses were worn to cover up a persistent stench.

Following a disastrous event before a Games, the figure poisoned an incompetent associate with a plate of food that the figure also ate from. While meeting with others, the figure was visibly ill and took an antidote carried in a pocket.

On the final morning of a Games, a tribute received a sponsor gift of what was believed to be a jug of poisoned milk from the figure who was seeking to force the tribute to kill either another tribute or themselves with it. Before it could be drunk, the other tribute was killed and the jug was smashed. The jug of poisoned milk was edited out of the final Game footage.

As retaliation for a tribute's actions during a Games, the figure sent a bag full of poisoned candy to a person. When the person ate one, the poison killed them despite desperate attempts to save them.

After a later Hunger Games, the figure had a Head Gamemaker killed, although the method was never revealed. In one account, the Gamemaker was locked in a room with poisonous berries, suggesting an execution by forced suicide. In another account, it was implied the Gamemaker ate the berries and died.

During a rebellion, as a distraction for a rescue mission, a live interview was performed. In the interview, the figure's habit of poisoning people was publicly exposed, having been learned about from clients who paid in secrets.

By the time of the figure's execution, the sores had seemingly worsened because of occasional coughing up of blood. The figure's habit of poisoning people may have ultimately led to a demise; the figure was believed to have either been trampled by an angry mob, or to have choked to death.

A poison antidote was an antidote used to treat poison. One known kind of antidote took on the form of a syrupy substance.

The political figure poisoned allies that felt threatening, but drank the poison as well to avoid attracting suspicion. Even though antidotes were taken, the poison caused permanent sores inside the mouth that never healed. As a result, a genetically engineered rose was always worn, which covered the scent of blood.

After poisoning an associate for incompetence, the figure took an antidote carried in a pocket.

One of the items included in some of the tributes' backpacks for a specific Games were bottles of antidote for the arena's poisons. One tribute got one and a group of others got at least one as well.

Although some tributes ingested the arena's poison, one quickly recognized what it was, and they survived thanks to an antidote in a backpack.

Two tributes found a bottle of the antidote while going through supplies. After an attack by a mutt, the two used it to treat their own injuries and in a vain attempt to save another's life.