The reaping was an annual event that took place in every district before each Hunger Games, in which tributes of the upcoming Games were chosen. It serves as the opening event in the week immediately prior to the start of the Hunger Games.

After the districts' defeat, a treaty was signed into law. Among the treaty's many provisions was the implementation of the Hunger Games. The reaping was developed as a means of selecting the tributes to participate in the Hunger Games through a lottery, although the initial implementation of the event gradually evolved into its modern form over the years.

The reaping is the opening event for the Hunger Games, held on a specific date. The reapings are not held at the same time for each district due to differing time zones. The reaping is a mandatory event for the entire district population, especially so for those still of reaping age. Failure to report to the reaping incurs severe penalties. The only exemption given for attendance is if an individual is severely ill or close to death.

As the time for the reaping approaches, the district population is to assemble in the square. The square is decorated, with cameras crews set up around the perimeter to capture the event as it is televised live. There is a hold placed on the broadcast in the event that something should happen that is not wished for viewers to see.

As district citizens enter the square, they are required to register with officials. The reaping allows the authorities to keep tabs on the district population as an informal census. Each age group of reaping eligible children was contained in roped-off areas in the town square separated on each side by gender, with the oldest eligible children in the front and the youngest in the back. Adults and family members of the potential tributes are placed along the perimeter.

On the stage, district government officials such as the mayor, the district escort, and previous victors assemble. The mayor steps forward and recites the history, the implementation and rules for the Hunger Games, and the spoils that come from victory. Following this, the mayor reads off a list of the district's previous victors. Once this is done, the mayor hands the proceedings over to the district escort, who officially opens the reaping.

After a brief number of comments, the escort proceeds to select a name at random from the reaping bowls. Once an entry slip is selected, the tribute's name is announced by the escort, and the individual selected is to approach the stage where they are presented to the district. Following selection, another reaping-eligible child of the same sex may choose to volunteer in that tribute's place, and the same process is repeated for the other. Otherwise, the two tributes are formally announced as the district's representation in that year's Hunger Games. Following their selection, the mayor of the district recites the treaty.

After this, the tributes are taken into custody, brought into a building, and each are taken to a room within, which is guarded to prevent escape. There, the tributes are allotted one hour to meet with family, friends, and others to say their goodbyes. Once the hour is elapsed, the tributes are taken to a waiting car outside, which transports them and their district partner to the train station. There they board a train, alongside their escort and mentor, bound for their destination.

Each district's escort has the duty of selecting the name of one male and one female tribute from two separate glass balls, both containing all entries of every eligible male and female potential tribute respectively of the district. Only people within a specific age range are eligible to be reaped. When a person reaches a certain age, they are officially ineligible to participate in the reaping and the Hunger Games. Similarly, past victors of the Hunger Games, even if they are still of reaping age, are exempt from further reapings.

Once of age, a potential tribute's name was entered into the reaping one time. The entries were cumulative with each passing year. For the residents of the various districts, anyone of eligible age could apply for tesserae. This supplied them with a year's worth of grain and oil. They could choose to do this for each of their family members as well. However, each tesserae they signed up for put another slip with their name in the reaping ball, which was also cumulative for each year they applied. The amount of tesserae taken was larger in poorer districts, but much rarer in the more affluent ones.

If someone chose to, another reaping age person may elect to volunteer to take the place of a reaped tribute. Volunteering was made by vocal acclamation. The act of volunteering was rare in most of the districts, largely due to the prevailing view of being selected to participate in the Hunger Games seen as a death sentence. Reasons to volunteer varied from person to person.

Volunteering, however, was far more common in certain districts, where participation in the Hunger Games is viewed as a great honor. In these districts, many young people are illegally trained in various forms of combat and survival in preparation for the Games since their childhood.

The rules regarding volunteering are never fully specified and thus remain unclear and vague. The volunteering process was simple in most districts due to its rarity. However, in certain districts, volunteering was a more complicated process. It is known that a reaping-aged person may only volunteer for a selected tribute that was the same sex as their own. Similarly, an individual not of reaping age could not volunteer for a selected tribute. Additionally, the tribute who is being volunteered for could not in turn volunteer for the volunteer.

Every 25 years, the tributes were chosen in an alternate manner as part of a special, quarter-century iteration of the Hunger Games known as the Quarter Quell. These special Hunger Games are held to keep the memory for holding the Games fresh with the populace, whilst adding a notable twist to the regular proceeding of the Games. The instructions for the specific year of the Quell were specified inside a special envelope read ahead of the reaping for these particular Hunger Games.