Reaper Ash was the male tribute from District 11 in the 10th Hunger Games.

He was a male aged 12–18. His occupation was Tribute. His home was District 11. His weapons were a pitchfork and a long knife. His fate was deceased.

He grew up in District 11 and became his district's male tribute. Sometime before the reaping, he killed a Peacekeeper, and nobody ever found out who did it. Along with the other tributes, he was transported from his district in a cattle car. During his interview session with his mentor, he refused to utter a single word. While at another mentor-tribute meeting, he sat with a stained bandage around his head, supposedly having been injured from a bombing in the arena. However, he was alone, as his mentor had been taken ill. The night before the Games, he spoke with the other tributes, apologizing to them personally for having to kill them and claiming that upon becoming victor, he would take revenge. Most people merely stared at him, but another tribute spit in his eye, leading to him unknowingly contracting an illness.

He was one of the few tributes to run for weaponry when the gong first went off, although by the time he positioned himself in a fighting stance, the area had already been cleared. Frustrated, he climbed into the stands. Later that day, he emerged from a tunnel carrying his district partner, laying her down in the sun before her death from illness. After another tribute's death, he appeared and went to collect remaining water bottles. Later, he cut a deal with a female tribute who had been sitting for long hours directly underneath the sun. He tore a flag and tossed it up to her in exchange for food, though this led to objections. He then withdrew behind a barricade when other tributes were seen approaching. After the female tribute was killed, he made a makeshift morgue of all the tributes that had died in the arena so far and covered them with a piece of the flag. He then took another flag remnant for himself, using it as a cape. After another tribute died from poisoning, he seemed suspicious as he examined her face. He suspected it was unnatural, and lined her up with the other dead tributes as well, abandoning her food and water on the ground. When mutts were released into the arena, he found refuge on a roof. The first time his mentor sent him food, he brushed it off, drinking water from a puddle instead. He descended and cut off another piece of flag, using it to cover other tributes after they had been added to his morgue. At this point, he was unsteady from lack of food and water, as well as the illness he had contracted earlier.

When only he and one other tribute remained, that tribute went over to a body and began to drag it to his morgue, but he assumed the job himself. When he finished, the other tribute taunted him by wreaking havoc upon the pieces of flag meant for covering the fallen tributes' corpses, moving them about aimlessly as he gave chase, insistent on keeping them covered. Aware of the previous spitting incident, she purposely used the fact that he had not eaten much for many days as a symptom of his illness to tire him out. With his attempts to give chase turning out to be futile, he desperately drank out of his puddle that, unbeknownst to him, had been contaminated with poison. He barely made it to a body before covering half of its form with the flag when his body gave out. It took the Gamemakers half an hour to fully acknowledge his passing.

He was rangy, tall and muscular, with dark brown skin and patched burlap clothing. After the bombing in the arena, he had a bandage stained with dried, rusty blood wrapped around his head. When he was ill from hunger in the Games, he became gaunt and unsteady.

His given name refers to reaping, which is the cutting of grain for the harvest. His surname refers to what is left behind by a fire. His first name is also reminiscent of a figure associated with death, as he collected the bodies of the tributes after they died in the Games.