Squad 451, also known as the "Star Squad," was a special sharpshooter unit formed to film propos and defuse pods during a battle. They later set out on an unsanctioned mission to assassinate a president.

At its first formation, the squad had nine members, but one was replaced, leaving a total of ten soldiers who had been a part of the unit. The squad was also accompanied by a four-person film crew, who were responsible for filming and producing propos.

After passing their examinations, Squad 451 was formed as a unit of highly skilled sharpshooters. They trained together for a few days before troops were deployed. The squad was transported by hovercraft to a district used as a makeshift transportation area, and they boarded a cargo train there. After a couple days' travel, they stepped out into a mountain tunnel. Then they traveled six hours on foot to a rebel encampment, secured a week before their arrival.

The squad shot propos for several days. On the fourth morning, a soldier hit a mislabeled pod and was killed. In the evening on the fifth day, a replacement arrived. On the sixth morning, the squad shot propos. The next afternoon, the whole squad was called in to film a complicated propo. In the process, the commander stepped on a pod that blew off his legs, then transferred his Holo over to another. Another soldier was killed triggering a second pod.

The squad and camera crew fled into a nearby apartment, where the commander succumbed to his injuries. A false story was told about a special mission to assassinate the president. With this settled, the squad relocated to a different building several blocks away. Shells were launched into the apartment they'd just been in, triggering explosions that made the whole building collapse and burn. Believing they were still inside, they were declared dead. The squad then moved through the sewers.

After six hours in the sewers, they stopped to rest. They began to hear mutts hissing a name. They redistributed weapons to arm the camera crew, and then they continued. They heard screaming, so an argument ensued about leading the mutts off while the others went ahead. However, while they argued, the scent grew stronger, and the lizard mutts chased them. One was killed by a pod; two others were killed holding off mutts at a dangerous pod; then three more were decapitated by the mutts. The Holo's self-destruct was activated to blow up the mutts.

The remaining five members exited into a utility room, and a civilian who discovered them was shot. They briefly resupplied and disguised themselves before hiding in a small cellar and tending to a bite wound before resting.

The squad remained in the cellar throughout the following day. The lie about the mission was confessed, and the others tried to convince they'd all known what they were getting into. The squad returned to talking strategy, though giving herself up was still suggested to give the others a shot. They watched broadcasts to catch up on the news, and returned to keep brainstorming, recuperate, and rest.

The next morning, the squad gathered around a television to watch a rebel broadcast about progress through the city. They learned that rebels had begun letting unmanned cars drift down the street to trigger pods, but they were quickly disabled and reenabled. They also learned that shopkeepers were being asked to host refugees, so the squad made plans to move on. One announced his intention to head off alone as a distraction.

Disguises were helped to be more convincing. The crew set out together first as guides, then two others, with one bringing up the rear. Snipers on the rooftops shot at forces, inadvertently taking out refugees as well. A gun was taken from a wounded figure, then another was shot to secure a weapon. Forces facing off triggered a pod with steam that boiled people alive. Another pod set off a purple light that caused its victims to bleed from every orifice. Two briefly played dead before moving on, but another pod opened up a trapdoor beneath the street with a long drop and mutts prowling below. Both narrowly escaped this, but one was captured. A request to be shot was failed to be heard in time. The journey continued towards a mansion, where a death was witnessed in a bombing.

The squad wouldn't reunite again, but the five remaining members all survived the war. Two both spent time in the hospital recovering from burns. Meanwhile, one went elsewhere, and two were sent across districts to document wreckage.

As victors, two both voted on a proposal. After an assassination, one spent several months in solitary confinement while a trial was held. Release eventually came and a return home happened. One had therapy for a while before also being released. Another took a job elsewhere.

All six soldiers on the squad from one district were killed in the conflict. One was the only soldier on the squad to die who was not from that district, though the two deceased members of the camera crew were from another place.