Strabo Plinth was a wealthy munitions tycoon and war profiteer. He was originally from a district and later moved to the Capitol. His power and influence came from his wealth.

During a major rebellion, he made a fortune from munitions and managed to secure a place in the Capitol for his family by siding with the ruling power. Through strategic donations of his wealth, he ensured his family enjoyed significant privileges.

He had a son who was a top-performing student selected for a mentor program in a competitive event. He intervened to have his son assigned a specific tribute from his home district, attempting to teach his rebellious son a lesson, as his son still sympathized with the districts.

This move backfired when the tribute escaped and was later captured. His son then sneaked into the arena to try to help the tribute. After his son was rescued by another mentor, he created a monetary prize to be awarded to the mentor of the event's victor, a sum large enough to pay for university tuition. He publicly credited his son with the idea for the prize.

The head official ultimately deemed his son's actions as treasonous. He then bought favor by funding new facilities for the official's projects. As a result, it was agreed his son would be sent away to a remote district as a peacekeeper.

In the district, his son ultimately became involved in a rebel plot. Evidence of his son's treachery was recorded and sent back to the Capitol.

After his son's death, he adopted the mentor who had rescued his son as his heir, funding his tuition and lifestyle, ending the poverty that had plagued the heir's life. The heir got along well with him, and he seemed pleased when the heir asked him for advice.

He was an extremely wealthy man convinced that with enough money, he could buy anything. To some degree, this strategy worked; he bought his family a place in the Capitol and a position of power, and bought his son into an elite academy. However, his money did not result in his son's loyalty or obedience and was ultimately unable to save his son's life.