The level of technology varies significantly from area to area. The Capitol is a technologically advanced metropolis, utilizing advanced science and engineering to make life easier for its citizens. Technology in the districts is not described in as much detail, but it seems that the poorer districts, at least, have progressed little beyond 20th and 21st century technology, and in some cases even regressed: For example, one district is lucky to get more than a few hours of electricity in the evening, and that remedies made from crudely processed plants are the only medicines available to most people.
Outside of the Capitol, one district seems to be the most technologically advanced area. Due to the non-aggression pact established following a past war, that district gained its independence from the Capitol, but was cut off from the rest of the country, and thus unable to share its technology with the other districts.
Technology development is the primary industry of another district; the citizens are highly adept at engineering, and the district contains factories that manufacture televisions, computers, and other electronic devices.

Notable uses of technology include appliances, communication, entertainment, fashion, food, genetic engineering, medicine, security, transportation, and weaponry.

Appliances include quarters containing a shower that has a panel with a hundred different options regarding water pressure, temperature, soaps, shampoos, scents, oils, and massaging sponges. A mat lies next to the shower that blows heated air to dry off the person's body. Also in the bathroom is a box that, when placing a hand on it, sends a current through the scalp that untangles, parts, and dries the users hair almost instantly. A closet can be programmed to prepare certain outfits for the user. A menu can prepare any food for the user when spoken into its mouthpiece.

Communication devices include retrofuturistic videophones and communicator devices resembling an oversized watch that received worded messages. During the games, mentors used such devices to send sponsor gifts to tributes inside the arena.

Entertainment technology includes a music chip small enough to be concealed in a flake of glitter, but that can hold hours of songs. Windows can function like programmable screens; in addition to acting as normal windows, they could be fixed with a variety of images.

Fashion technology includes artificial but highly realistic flames used as a key element in costumes. A dress could be triggered to light up with artificial flames by specific motion. A machine can turn graphite into diamonds for use in jewelry and clothing. Outfits can be studded with electric lights. A high-tech stitching device automatically senses the density of the fabric and selects the appropriate type of thread. A utilitarian outfit incorporated body armor, a collapsible mesh helmet, and patches that mimicked the patterns on a bird's wings.

Food technology includes a machine that, upon request, delivered freshly prepared food in less than a minute.

Genetic engineering technology allowed the creation of entirely new species of animals. The scent of a flower could be genetically enhanced.

Medical technology includes a burn cream that soothed injuries instantly and significantly reduced inflammation in a matter of hours. A “full body polish” could erase scars. A toxic fog caused severely painful burns and blisters; an ointment soothed and eventually healed the scabs. Medical treatment could repair burns with laboratory-grown skin cells grafted onto tissue.

Security technology includes districts surrounded by electrified fences to keep the citizens from escaping. Before a selection process, all eligible individuals sign in and are sorted by age. The roof of a training center and the edge of game arenas were encased by force fields that deflected any object they come in contact with. Before each game began, participants were injected with small tracking devices so their position and status could be monitored. An armory contains multiple security checkpoints, including two where the entrant's DNA must be verified before they can proceed.

Transportation technology includes a high-speed train system that can cover great distances in less than 24 hours. Hovercrafts are a means of aerial transport for military use, passengers, or cargo. Sponsor gifts were delivered via drone, using facial recognition to lock onto targets. These drones were later replaced with silver parachutes.

Weaponry technology includes drones that could be hacked. At the beginning of each game, participants emerge into the arena on metal plates wired to landmines. If a participant attempts to leave their plate before a countdown is complete, the mines detonate. Landmines could be re-positioned and reactivated to create a protective obstacle. A gun converted solar energy into rays of power, giving the weapon potentially unlimited ammunition. Wire could be used to create an electrical trap. Training stations featured mobile, holographic targets shaped like humans, some wielding virtual weapons. Nuclear technology is used to make bombs, explosives, and missiles. A custom-made, military grade bow and arrows fired razor-sharp, incendiary, and explosive projectiles, and allowed for accurate hits from one hundred yards away. The bow could be deactivated and reactivated by voice command. Obstacles are used to stop advancing forces.