The Capitol of Panem is a technologically advanced metropolis and home to the nation's elites. The Capitol is also the colloquial name for the ruling regime of Panem. As the seat of power in Panem, this city rules the nation's thirteen districts (twelve after The Dark Days). The Hunger Games are held within its city limits (protected by anti-aircraft guns and multiple launch rocket systems, or MLRS's).
Prior to the Second Rebellion, the Capitol was a tyrannical dictatorship and held total political and economic dominance over Panem, enforcing its rule through an army of Peacekeepers, capital punishment, propaganda, the fear of nuclear devastation, and the Hunger Games. It is also the only major city mentioned in the trilogy. The Capitol is known for the luxurious, decadent lifestyles enjoyed by its citizens. Following the events of Mockingjay, Panem is transformed into a constitutional republic.

It is located in the western, mountainous section of former North America. The Rockies also act as a natural barrier and have served the Capitol well, allowing their air force to bomb the rebels who attempted to invade the city during the Dark Days.

Much is unknown about when the Capitol was first established. Eventually over time, the most affluent families moved over to the Capitol. Citizens from the districts were still eligible for citizenship within the advanced city up to right after the Dark Days. At this early point of the country's history, citizens of the Capitol could freely move throughout the districts.

The catalyst for the Dark Days is unknown, but it was a civil war between the districts and the Capitol spanning three years. It ended 74 years before the original trilogy.
Although much of what transpired is unknown, the Capitol was subjected to numerous air raids, and rebel forces caused routine blackouts. The Capitol was under siege for the final two years of the war as rebels halted food supplies to the city. This led to mass starvation and widespread poverty.
Near the end of the rebellion, the Capitol had managed a victory against the rebels when they attempted to scale the mountains that serve as natural protection for the city. The Capitol's Air Force was able to kill off a large number of ground troops and destroy large amounts of equipment, giving them the upper hand in the rebellion.
The war became stagnant 3 years into the conflict, as both District 13 and the Capitol held their nuclear arsenals pointed at one another. However, both parties diplomatically agreed to sign a peace treaty to officially end the conflict. This allowed the Capitol to regain full control of the other twelve districts, and District 13 to secede from Capitol rule, establishing its status as an independent nation. However, this decision was unbeknownst to the rest of nation, as the Capitol publicly announced that District 13 had been annihilated by the Capitol itself, and was left radioactive and uninhabitable. Even 75 years later, the Capitol continued using such propaganda to intimidate the districts and discourage rebellion.
After the rebellion, the Hunger Games was announced, serving as an annual event to remind the Districts of the cost of their rebellion. After the end of the Dark Days, Panem began its reconstruction period to redevelop the country, especially the Capitol.

As the wealthiest of Panem, Capitol citizens tend to possess lucrative jobs, such as fashion designers, news reporters, bank managers, doctors, scientists, university professors, or working directly for the government. Capitol citizens are noted to possess high-ranking and integral roles and occupations over Panem as a whole. As many Capitol residents live in considerable luxury due to their assets within the Districts, this deepening inequality and blatant exploitation may have played a part in the rising tension between the Capitol and Districts.
Capitol citizens possess a sense of superiority over District citizens, viewing District people as savages more akin to animals. Capitol citizens also see themselves as more civilized and intelligent than their district counterparts and typically lacked empathy toward District citizens.
Nepotism and the obsession with 'old money' families are also prevalent within Capitol society. Nevertheless, those from affluent families were given special opportunities. There is also an academy and university for the brightest and most well-connected students, though even for Capitol citizens tuition was very high for the latter. Additionally, even the Capitol had a black market.

After the establishment of the Hunger Games and the end of the Dark Days, the Capitol continued to rapidly prosper into wasteful indulgence. Many Capitol residents are extremely shallow, always looking for ways to be noticed. An outrageous sense of style and fashion are very important to the citizens of the Capitol. It is common for them to tattoo and dye their bodies in extravagant bright colors, as well as undergo plastic surgery to alter their appearances. These alterations are done so heavily that they are described as disfiguring. Some people of the Capitol also have gems implanted in their skin. Capitol residents frequently wear wigs in a multitude of colors.
In order to have a good time at a party and eat as much as they want, Capitol residents drink a liquid that causes them to vomit, thus providing enough room in their stomachs for more food. The residents seem oblivious to the fact that, although they go through lots of food and still have plenty left over, many of the districts' residents are starving. The food Capitol residents eat is extremely rich and appears in exotic and beautiful patterns. Everything is luxurious and overwhelming for the tributes that arrive from the poor districts.

The people who live in the Capitol are culturally distinct from the rest of Panem, speaking with strange accents; their voices are high pitched, their jaws barely open when talking, and their tone at the ends of their sentences going up as if they're asking a question. They have odd vowels, clipped words, and tend to hiss the letter "s."
People living in the Capitol are very easy to win over because, despite the fact that they enjoy theatric bloodshed, they love sentimentality and melodrama. This fact has been exploited to further various agendas.
Capitol residents have often been said to treat the Hunger Games like a celebrated sporting event and a highly anticipated source of entertainment and past time. They take pride in betting on the tributes simply for bragging rights, not understanding or showing any regard for the horror their government is committing by forcing the games upon the districts. Some citizens are sponsors to the tributes, paying money for packages of supplies that are then delivered to them in the arena. Also, the more blood and fighting there is in the arena, the greater the entertainment for the Capitol. Unlike the twelve districts of Panem, the Capitol does not have to offer children for the Hunger Games, although the idea was discussed.
Despite their extreme wealth, life moves very slowly until the Games, which make them all the more anticipated. Despite being at the top of both the economic and social chain, there is very little in the way of celebration or festivity until the Games and Victory Tour.

The Capitol has no localized city government, as the central government of Panem is housed at the Capitol. Capitol citizens control the government. Prior to the establishment of the Constitutional Republic in the wake of the Second Rebellion, no elections were held in Panem or in the Capitol. The Capitol exerts all political and economic control over all of Panem, and the regime is known to be exceptionally harsh in keeping law and order in the districts.
Headed by the president who is the ultimate authority in the nation, the Capitol imposes a centrally planned economy on the districts, with all major industries under its control. The economic development of the districts is thus extremely limited, and nearly all citizens live in abject poverty.
The President of Panem heads a cabinet whose members are chosen by the president himself. The individual members of the cabinet are charged with various duties and portfolios.
After the Battle of the Capitol, the central government dissolved, and its members were arrested.
The Capitol employs a powerful military force to enforce its laws and police the districts. The majority of the military's manpower comes from District 2, as Capitol citizens are not known for physically fighting. With few exceptions, the only members of the military who reside in the Capitol are the military commanders. The Peacekeepers, who form the backbone of the Capitol's Armed Forces, are armed with advanced, cutting-edge equipment and technology, including nuclear arms. Following the overthrow of the Capitol, the armed forces are disbanded as well.

After the collapse of modern civilization, the thirteen districts were brought together under the Capitol's rule, thus forming the nation of Panem. Originally, there were thirteen districts, until the outbreak of the Dark Days, which was a failed attempt to topple the dictatorship.
District 13, unbeknownst to the other districts, was the Capitol's primary weapons supplier as its industry was in military arms production and nuclear weapons development and research, which had been instrumental to supporting the Dark Days and Second Rebellion. As the rebellion wavered, 13 managed to get the Capitol to capitulate to a degree through a threat of mutually assured destruction with their nuclear arsenal. 13 was allowed to secede from Panem and would prepare for another rebellion in the following decades, and the Capitol created fear-mongering propaganda of District 13's "annihilation" in the war, whilst hoping that the rogue district would eventually die out.

Though the districts harvest all of the country's resources, such as fish, coal, lumber, textiles, technology, electricity, transportation, grain, livestock, crops, and gems, they must export almost all of their resources to serve the Capitol's citizens and their overwhelming greed. As a result, many districts do not have enough resources to provide for themselves.
It is said that the Capitol favors District 2 as a lapdog, although District 2 is still not excused from the Hunger Games. Out of all the districts, District 2 is the most loyal to the Capitol. Following the end of the Dark Days and the destruction (in reality, secession) of District 13, the Capitol looked to District 2 as the new center of its military-industrial complex. The Capitol's military operations were thus based in District 2's mountains.
With the establishment of the base in District 2, military careers were offered to District 2 citizens. Because of this, many District 2 citizens began to look favorably upon the Capitol. Nevertheless, citizens in the mountainous regions, who remained loyal to the district trade of masonry, maintained a negative view of the Capitol and rebelled during the Second Rebellion.

The districts have no political representation since all power is invested in the Capitol’s central government, with a President acting as the supreme leader of the nation. The districts' mayors serve as governors, ensuring the districts fulfill their quotas of production. They serve no electoral representative role as parliamentarians or congressional representatives.
As a result, the citizens of the districts generally live in abject poverty and under brutal oppression. The Capitol takes advantage of this suffering, using it as a tool to keep the districts in line and in servitude.

Following the victory of two tributes in the 74th Hunger Games, unrest began growing in the districts once more, particularly the outlying and most impoverished districts. After a failure to extinguish the dissent within the districts during a Victory tour, the third quarter quell was announced, in which victors were forced back into the arena as tributes. After the 75th Hunger games ended with the arena being destroyed, many districts turned to full-scale rebellion against the Capitol. The full-scale uprising, which after several months led to the takeover of all 12 districts by rebel forces, were led and supported by District 13 and its military arsenal.
Rebel forces then managed to set up military bases around the outer areas of the Capitol and effectively managed to make safe pathways leading further into the Capitol despite the pods activated by Gamemakers. By the end of the rebellion, as the Capitol evacuated its citizens residing in the outer blocks of the city, the rebel forces used the opportunity to further their assault within the Capitol. The invasion of the Capitol was ultimately successful, leading to the overthrow of the regime and the arrests of large numbers of Capitol officials.
A call was made for the remaining Hunger Games Victors to vote on a 76th Hunger Games, using Capitol children. The victors approved by a narrow decision. However, during an execution, a last-minute decision was made to assassinate the interim leader. In the chaos that followed, a free election was held. The 76th Hunger Games were never held, and the event was entirely abolished afterwards. Under the leadership of the new administration, Panem was transformed into a constitutional republic. Massive economic and political liberalization took place afterwards, and the districts are implied to have prospered.