The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes is a prequel book in a franchise. The story follows a top-performing student at the Academy who is selected as part of a new mentor program for the 10th Hunger Games. His family has fallen upon hard times. A strong performance in the mentor program will likely result in a prize that would allow him to attend the University. He is assigned to mentor the female tribute from District 12, traditionally one of the worst-performing districts.

During the reaping, his tribute performs a stunning song, charming everyone watching. This makes the mentor the envy of his fellow students. He learns that the Academy's dean is well aware of his family's poverty and seems to possess an inexplicable grudge against him. The mentor decides to meet his tribute on the train arriving in the Capitol. This results in him being placed with the tributes at the Capitol Zoo. His bold move endears him to his tribute, whom he learns was part of a traveling group and got trapped in District 12 following the war. He is told that he is good at games and could one day be a Gamemaker. The dean, however, gives him a demerit for his actions.

The mentor continues to visit his tribute at the zoo. Another mentor, originally from a district but now in the Capitol due to wealth, is troubled about the Hunger Games. He gives his tribute food. Meanwhile, the mentor comes up with the idea of placing odds on the tributes. He continues to bond with his own tribute, as she is one of the few who are willing to engage during interviews. The idea of letting people send food into the arena as a way of getting them more involved is inspired.

Later, another mentor is killed by her tribute, who is then gunned down, making her the first tribute to die before the Games have begun. The mentor is tapped to be the chief mourner at the funeral. He and another student are called away regarding his fleshed-out proposal for a system of betting and sending food into the arena. The other student is punished for lying. The mentor is deeply troubled by the incident. He later finds his tribute starving and becomes even more troubled about her potential fate.

At the funeral, the tributes are paraded. The mentors and tributes are then taken for a tour of the Capitol Arena. While there, the arena is bombed. The mentor is trapped by debris, but his tribute rescues him. Several tributes and mentors are killed. The mentor is hospitalized for his injuries. He is pleased to discover his tribute is okay. She tells him he can repay her by thinking that she could actually win. They begin plotting ideas. An assignment is set to write an essay on everything attractive about war. The mentor preps for his tribute's televised interview, which goes great. He is less-than-satisfied with his paper about the war.

The mentor becomes troubled by everyone's assessment that his tribute has no chance of winning. He tells her she'll win and gives her a token. She gives him a kiss. He also strongly hints that she should use the token to smuggle rat poison.

The day of the Hunger Games dawns with the news that another tribute has died, meaning ten tributes are out before the Games have started. The mentor tries to play up the idea that his tribute is more of a Capitol girl. The mentors are given devices to send in gifts to their tributes based on sponsorship money. The Games begin. An escaped tribute has been chained up, bloodied and beaten. Seeing this, the other mentor smashes a chair and runs out. The gong sounds to start the Games. Later, a tribute kills the chained tribute with an ax, getting the first kill and receiving the first gift.

This is the only action for a long time. It is reminded that the landscape of the Arena has changed with the bombings, providing new places to hide. That evening, another tribute dies from illness. The mentors are sent home, but a visit reveals that the other mentor has gone missing and is seen inside the arena, placing bread crumbs on the dead tribute's body. The mentor is ordered into the arena to rescue him. The other mentor says to let him die to make a statement, but he is warned his death will never be shown. The two escape, but the mentor has to kill one of the tributes in the process. Afterwards, it is called a transformative opportunity for him.

That morning, the death is overshadowed by the announcement of a prize: a full ride to University for the mentor whose tribute wins. In the afternoon, another tribute is killed by a pack. Afterwards, both the mentor's tribute and the male tribute from her district emerge, but the male is rabid. Remembering that rabies victims suffer from hydrophobia, the mentor moves to send in water, but the male tribute's own mentor does so instead, saying she wants a tribute from their district to win. The male tribute dies. The mentor then learns his family is on the verge of losing their home.

The next day, more alliances form. That afternoon, a pack confronts a tribute hiding at the top of a pole. She manages to injure two of them, but is finally stabbed and falls to her death. The pack then turns on one of its own, killing him. That evening, another tribute ventures out, creating a makeshift morgue. His mentor is encouraged to feed him, but states it could be a long Games. The mentor is told that another injured mentor has passed away. Repercussions are promised, and he concludes that snake muttations will be unleashed in the arena. Not wanting to lose his tribute, he secretly drops a handkerchief bearing her scent into the snake tank. Afterwards, he worries if he has made a big mistake.

The next morning, another tribute emerges after days of hiding. Her mentor showers her with gifts, but she passes away, leaving only seven tributes. Though everyone thinks she perished from starvation, the mentor strongly suspects she is a victim of poisoning by his tribute. Another tribute comes out to collect her body but does not scavenge her food. That evening, the death of the injured mentor is announced. Then, the snake muttations are unleashed upon the arena. One tribute runs but is killed. Another climbs a pole to try to escape. Then, the mentor's tribute emerges from a tunnel and begins a chant, swaying to music. The snakes flock to her, creating a skirt of weaving reptiles, and she sings a song to them, leaving them spellbound. The remainder of the hour is devoted to remembrance of the dead mentor.

Only five tributes remain. The mentors sleep at the Academy. The next morning, one tribute launches an attack with modified drones. The drones swarm and injure another tribute, who falls and snaps his neck. The attacking tribute's victory is short-lived, as another tribute leaps through the stands, killing her with an ax. Only three are left. The mentor's tribute emerges, seemingly trying to figure out who's left, when the ax-wielding tribute comes out, trying to ax her. She flings herself into his arms, seeming to embrace him, and he realizes what she has done but it is too late. He pulls a snake from his neck and smashes it, but falls dead. Suddenly, it is down to only two. That afternoon, the mentor's tribute taunts the remaining tribute by moving pieces of flag he has been using to cover the dead. She runs him ragged until he drinks from a puddle she has poisoned. He retches and collapses. It seems to be the end, but time passes before she checks for a pulse and finds nothing. The victor of the 10th Hunger Games is announced. The mentor is then confronted with evidence against him, including the token and the handkerchief he dropped into the snake tank. Thus, he becomes a Peacekeeper.

The new Peacekeeper asks to be assigned to District 12, an uncommon request that is granted. He had been told that while they had overlooked some rule-breaking for all mentors, his specific actions couldn't be overlooked. He was given the alternative of avoiding public disgrace by joining the Peacekeepers. As he shipped out, there was no coverage of the games on television.

He arrives in District 12 and meets fellow recruits. He settles into a routine and learns from a letter that his family apartment is going on the market. He despairs and considers suicide when he hears a familiar voice: the other mentor. He is thrilled to see him. The other mentor explains his situation was similar; he was on the verge of expulsion, but his father made a deal for him to graduate and enroll in the Peacekeepers, on the condition that the new Peacekeeper be allowed to graduate also. He presents a diploma, saying he graduated with honors and can take the officer test.

It's announced there's going to be a band performance where his tribute will be singing. He realizes it is his chance to finally see her. He and the other mentor receive a package of food they can trade for entry. Before the day, however, they are ordered to attend a hanging. As the execution proceeds, a woman shouts. The man shouts a warning before he is hung, and the call is rebounded and echoed by birds in the trees, identified as jabberjays. The sound is transformed into something melodic by mockingjays. The Peacekeeper dislikes them on sight and suggests creating a hunting party to rid the woods of them.

The time comes for the performance. His tribute appears and sings. He is pleased to see her but worried she might not be his girl. She finally sees him and sings a song he knows is for him. During their reunion, there is a disturbance from a drunk man who is clearly her spurned former lover. Others order him away. Peacekeepers try to send him away and it looks like a fight when the lights go on. Everything becomes chaos and both Peacekeepers end up taking the mayor's daughter home. There, he sees the former lover.

The next morning, no soldier may leave the base alone. The other mentor offers to accompany him to his tribute's home. He secures a bag of ice. They travel and a girl guides him to his tribute. He finds her in a meadow, singing a song. She tells him he found her. She thanks him for the ice and, at his request, tells him more about the arena. In return, he tells her the truth about why she was able to charm the snakes. She says they both saved each other and that they're together. She also tells him the dean gave her money on the quiet, apologizing, leading him to wonder why.

She takes him inside, hoping to introduce him to others, but the former lover is back. Furthermore, the other mentor is talking with him. He tells them not to worry. She warns the former lover to go away. He implies she plays with men's hearts. She tells him this isn't true. She didn't come back for more of the same and he tells her to make a new life with him. They agree to meet the next week. On the way back, he learns the other mentor was talking about the captured woman from the hanging. She's been locked up and he's agreed to try to get information. He is shocked, telling him he's not thinking properly. The other mentor asks if he thinks he's committed treason and he says not quite yet. The other mentor reveals that a high official thought he did, and his father bought her off. He agrees to be more careful.

Back at the base, he writes a letter to the high official, reflecting on the balance between chaos and control. That evening, the other mentor helps him study for the officer test, though he doesn't plan to take it. He suggests that if he were an officer, they might let him train to be a doctor. The other mentor agrees to think it over. The next day, he learns his suggestion of shooting the birds has been approved, but first some must be trapped for study. A researcher comes. The group gets to work and he takes the officer test. Meanwhile, he reflects the other mentor will likely never really change. Getting a suspicion, he examines the other mentor's effects and discovers a large secret stash of money. Then, he overhears him lying about having no money.

The project to round up the birds continues. He finds the mockingjays unnatural. Despite efforts, they capture jabberjays but no mockingjays. He tells his tribute about the project and she compares the control of the birds to torture. He replies he's not sure if there's a human equivalent and she asks if he always feels free to speak his mind. He says you should always say what you think and she tells him her father thought the same and ended up dead. Others then perform a song revealing the origins of her name. He finds the song ridiculous and tries to consult the other mentor, only to find him gone. He quickly locates him but begins to worry he must no longer let him out of his sight. The next day, he talks with his tribute about the Hunger Games. She asks if he thinks they're right and he admits he's not even sure why they do them, but says he thinks people are forgetting the war too fast. She replies her family got broken up because of the Capitol. She feels her freedom is worth the risk and tells him she thinks he wants to think for himself.

She is given a plant, though it's not ready for eating yet. He learns each member of her group gets their name from a ballad and a color, hers being special because she got her whole name from her ballad. She then performs a soothing song until the melody is picked up by mockingjays. He learns the former lover is trying to convince her to go north to find free people. Though she tells him she trusts him, he is disturbed. The project continues and they finally capture mockingjays. Then, the other mentor pulls him aside. Suspecting a confession, he surreptitiously sets a jabberjay to record. The other mentor reveals he is planning to help rebels leave for the north. They need him to help free the captured woman. He plans to break her out and is buying illegal guns. He tries to talk him out of it, but he's determined. So he wishes him good luck, but secretly sends the jabberjay with the treasonous words to the high official.

Afterwards, he is guilt-ridden but comforts himself that the recording may never be heard. He worries what his tribute might think. He resolves to try to talk sense into the other mentor but finds no opportunity, and receives a letter of his family's darkening financial situation. That evening, after a mournful ballad, he discovers the other mentor meeting with the former lover. A shotgun is thrust towards him when his tribute appears and defuses the situation, claiming she's going north with the former lover. Another man asks if she and the Peacekeeper aren't together. She replies he is seeing her cousin, and he decides to play along. Then, the mayor's daughter walks in. The former lover tells her to go home. The other man, however, suggests she join them, saying they have no quarrel with her, only her father.

The mayor's daughter makes to flee and the other man aims to shoot her, but the former lover knocks the weapon down. He then shoots in her direction and she collapses. He shouts at his tribute to get back onstage for an alibi, but the former lover charges, saying if he swings, she does, so the other man shoots him through the chest. The other man tells his tribute to go before someone comes and he promises to take care of it. They all promise to keep it quiet, though the other man suggests he might want to think about coming with them. He and the other mentor return to base. As time passes, he begins to relax, sure nothing can tie him to the crime, and that he can get the other mentor to give up the escape plan. However, the other man is brought in on a stretcher. The next morning, the other mentor is arrested. He is quickly executed for treason, the jabberjays calling out his last word.

He becomes convinced it will only be a matter of time until he is arrested too, worried over the rifle. He decides to face death and is relieved when summoned. He is thanked for his sacrifice, given he was close friends with the executed mentor. He is asked about guns, if perhaps they were bought on the black market. In the end, he is told he did a real service and to enjoy a party. He celebrates by blasting mockingjays and that evening, listens to his tribute singing a new song about him. Afterwards, she tells him the mayor believes she killed both the mayor's daughter and the former lover and that she's going to run away north. She says she's glad to say good-bye, but he replies he's going with her. She says he'd be risking his life, but he replies it's only a matter of time until they find the guns and connect him to the murder. They agree to meet at dawn.

That morning, as he prepares to meet her, he is intercepted and told he's wanted in the commander's office. He fears he has been caught, but is told he leaves for officers' school the next day. He's the youngest ever to pass the test and is recommended for an elite program. He is bitter at the irony, that his second chance is stripped away by the murder weapon. He steels himself and goes to find her. He asks about her group, but she says she's wearing out her welcome and was told not to sing a certain dark song again. They set off, she saying she'll miss her music and birds and he saying he won't miss people. He lets slip a comment about having killed three people, referencing the executed mentor. When she confronts him, he tells her he killed the old him so he could come with her.

They take shelter from the rain in an old shack and there, he is stunned to discover a bag containing weapons, including the one with his DNA. He asks if they should take them and she says she doesn't trust them, telling him she's going to dig up some plants. With her gone, he hatches a new plan. He can destroy the gun, and there will be nothing tying him to the crime. He loves her, but he can't stand the thought of life in the wilderness. He wonders how she will react. He goes out to find her and realizes she's hiding. He can think of only one reason: that she's figured out the truth of his wanting to run away, and that he had betrayed the other mentor. He shouts for her, saying he just wants to talk, but gets no reply. He searches and finds her scarf, then is bit by a snake the scarf was covering. He is shocked that she has apparently tried to kill him and does not know what to do. He yells out to her again, telling her it's not too late, and in response, she sings from the dark song. As mockingjays pick up the song, he fires all around the woods, but cannot tell if he has hit her.

As it storms, he goes back to the lake and begins a desperate flight back to the base. He makes it back, where his story of a snake bite is not questioned. He asks if he's going to die, but is told the snake wasn't venomous and the bite will only leave a scar. The next day, he boards a hovercraft. Before they arrive at their destination, however, the craft stops in the Capitol. His destination is the Citadel, where he is met by the high official. She tells him she's pleased he continued his studies, asking what more he had learned about chaos and control. He tells her he's learned