Tigris is a character who is the cousin of Coriolanus Snow. She was a stylist in early editions of the Hunger Games. She is part of an underground rebel alliance to overthrow the Capitol.

Tigris was born into an affluent family. However, her family's wealth was lost, throwing them into poverty. Her parents died, forcing her to live with her cousin and her grandmother. She started cooking for the family. She was a former student at the Academy but chose to pursue a career in fashion.

By the time of the 10th Hunger Games, she was employed under a fashion designer. She assisted her cousin with his clothing. She was supportive but sympathetic toward the tributes, disturbed by their mistreatment. She helped prepare a tribute for public appearances, unofficially serving as the first Hunger Games stylist by providing a dress and makeup.

After the Games, she continued to support her cousin. At some point, she became a stylist for an unknown district's tributes. Over the years, she received surgical enhancements to alter her looks to resemble a tiger, including face and arm tattoos, a flattened nose, and large whiskers. Although she was on good terms with her cousin initially, she eventually grew to hate him.

By the time of the Second Rebellion, she owned a small shop selling fur-lined clothes and was no longer a stylist. She helped shelter and feed rebel squad members, hiding them in a secret cellar in her store. She acquired intel for them and redesigned their looks to help them blend in with Capitol citizens so they could infiltrate the presidential mansion.

In her youth, she was described as having a long, pointed nose and a skinny body, with a certain sweetness and vulnerability. In later years, she had her face stretched and tattooed with tiger stripes, a flattened snout, implanted whiskers, and tawny eyes.

Tigris is a sympathetic, generous, and hospitable individual. She cares for others deeply. She was frustrated by the Hunger Games and expressed sympathy for the tributes. She was against the Games. She is kind and loyal to the rebel cause.

She had a sibling-like relationship with her cousin, caring for him deeply. She cooked for him and was kind-hearted. She was more empathetic than him. Their relationship eventually soured due to their different perspectives.

She had a family bond with her grandmother, though they often disagreed.

She was largely sympathetic toward a female tribute, showing consideration and care for her desires.