This is the unofficial timeline detailing major events as they occur or are described throughout the series. It spans roughly a century, set in an indeterminately distant, post-apocalyptic future of our own world, after global catastrophes led to the fall of modern civilization.

Approach to timeline
A major issue for dating in the series is how to track its history. No official out-of-universe timeline is used, nor is an in-universe dating system mentioned to track the years. To make up for this lack of clarity, this timeline will use an unofficially recognized, non-canonical calendar system in order to provide a relative reference to events in the series.
The designations used to label years will be Before the Dark Days (BDD) and After the Dark Days (ADD). The origin year is 0 BDD and 0 ADD, during which the Dark Days ended, the Treaty of Treason was signed, and the Hunger Games were instituted. BDD counts down to the origin point, while ADD counts up from it. Also, since the nation uses the Gregorian calendar, one year measured in BDD or ADD will begin in January and end in December.
This timeline is considered incomplete because many past, present and future events are as of yet unknown, and the chronology is very loose. As a result, many events will have approximate dates or will be listed as unknown.

Early history
At some point in the future, the Earth is ravaged by a series of ecological disasters spurred on by climate change. This includes droughts, storms, fires, and rising sea levels, which all lead to widespread resource shortages. A global war breaks out over the remaining resources, leading to the collapse of world governments, and the human population is largely decimated, nearing extinction.

Founding of the nation
An indeterminate number of years after the fall of civilizations in North America, the nation is founded. Sometime during or after its founding, its land and people are segmented into thirteen outlying districts, with the seat of its government, the Capitol, situated in the Rocky Mountains. One district is established in Appalachia.
Whether from its inception as a nation-state or a gradual transformation, it becomes a totalitarian dictatorship and police state. The impoverished district citizenry is exploited for their labor to the sole benefit of the Capitol. Their work and resources are likely key factors behind its extensive technological advancement. Over the years, structural inequality stokes resentment in the districts against the Capitol ruling class.

The Dark Days (3 - 0 BDD)
The thirteen districts launch a revolution against the Capitol, resulting in a major civil war.
According to the Capitol, the war is instigated by rebels in District 13. As the previous military headquarters, 13 allegedly disseminates weapons and communications to other rebels throughout the districts.
The conflict quickly spreads to all corners of the nation as loyalist and rebel soldiers wage war across the districts for control of the country. The Capitol liberally uses genetically engineered weapons, muttations, fleets of hovercraft in bombing campaigns, and other advance technologies to quell the uprising. The rebelling districts, in turn, employ espionage and guerilla tactics alongside District 13 materiel to fight on par with the Capitol. As a result, widespread loss of infrastructural damage is sustained throughout the country.
The Capitol strategically places tracker jacker nests around the districts like land mines, and in several districts, jabberjays are used to spy on rebels.
The rebel districts blockade and lay siege to the Capitol in an attempt to starve out the Capitol and its citizens, resulting in city-wide food shortages, rationing, and isolated incidents of cannibalism.
The Capitol stages high-profile executions in the Capitol Arena, making it a prime target for rebel bombers.
Rebel forces attempt to break the siege by scaling the Rocky Mountains and invading the Capitol itself. The terrain leaves them exposed to Capitol aircraft, likely resulting in heavy casualties. This loss presumably has a devastating impact on the rebel war effort, turning the tide of the war in favor of the Capitol.
Realizing that the rebels have lost their advantage, District 13 decides to abandon its allies and secure its own independence. They seize a significant portion of the Capitol's nuclear arsenal and target the city. Knowing the Capitol still has its own nuclear weapons, District 13 threatens mutually assured destruction unless the Capitol strikes a deal.
District 13's leaders propose that the Capitol allow them to quietly secede as an independent state, in exchange for their withdrawal of support from the rebel war effort and presenting the illusion that the Capitol destroyed the district. Left with no other viable alternative and unwilling to escalate the rebellion into a nuclear war, the Capitol reluctantly agrees to the terms of the ceasefire.
District 13 consolidates its people and assets in an underground complex, and the Capitol carpet bombs its surface infrastructure.
The Capitol uses the decimated ruins of 13 as propaganda, making an example of it as the consequence for rebelling. With the loss of support from District 13, the rebellion collapses and is overrun by the Capitol. The remaining districts are pacified and reunified under the firm grip of the Capitol.

The Hunger Games Era (0 ADD - 74 ADD)
After the districts' defeat and the end of the Dark Days, the Treaty of Treason is written to introduce new laws, ostensibly to guarantee peace, and to prevent the possibility of another district rebellion.
The Treaty's most prominent provision is the establishment of the Hunger Games. The event marks the anniversary of the districts' defeat with a twisted annual celebration. District children between the ages of 12 and 18 are reaped via lottery to fight to the death in the Hunger Games. Each year there are twenty-four tributes— one male and one female from each district— and they compete until only one remains as the victor.

The 10th Hunger Games
For the first time, mentors are introduced into the Hunger Games. They are chosen from the Academy's top 24 students.
The reaping is held for the 10th Hunger Games. The tributes begin their train journey by cattle car to the Capitol.
Tributes are unloaded at the train station and brought by truck to the Capitol Zoo.
The 10th Hunger Games are hosted in the Capitol Arena. A tribute becomes District 12's first victor.

The 25th Hunger Games
The 25th Hunger Games take place, operating under the unique rules of the first Quarter Quell: during the reaping, instead of being selected randomly, the tributes are elected by the citizens of their respective districts. The eventual victor of the First Quarter Quell is unknown and was deceased by the time of the Third Quarter Quell, half a century later. This was also the first year to have a designated arena for the specific purpose of hosting The Hunger Games.

The 50th Hunger Games
The card for the second Quarter Quell is read, declaring that twice the regular number of tributes will be selected in the reaping, resulting in a total of 48 tributes.
The 50th Hunger Games take place.
The 50th Hunger Games begin. 18 tributes die in the Cornucopia bloodbath.
A tribute is declared the victor of the 50th Hunger Games.

Growing Unrest and the Second Rebellion (74 - 76 ADD)
The 74th Hunger Games
The reaping is held for the 74th Hunger Games. A tribute is reaped from District 12, but another tribute volunteers to take her place.
Arriving in the Capitol, the tributes are introduced to their stylists.
Training for the 74th Hunger Games takes place.
The 74th Hunger Games begin. Eleven tributes die in the bloodbath.
The Gamemakers start a forest fire to drive tributes together.
The remaining Careers recruit a tribute, who unearths, rearranges, and reactivates land mines to protect their supplies.
A young tribute is killed. Another tribute kills her attacker, and at the young tribute's request, she sings the girl to sleep. Then she wreaths the body in flowers.
A rule change is announced: two tributes from the same district can win together if they're the last two alive.
A feast is announced with items tributes desperately need.
The Gamemakers send a rainstorm.
The rain clears, so the tributes go hunting. While foraging, one tribute unknowingly collects poisonous nightlock berries, which another tribute steals and eats.
The final tributes are driven to the Cornucopia by wolf mutts.
Once the sun comes up at dawn, a tribute is mercy-killed. The remaining two tributes distance themselves, and then the rule change is revoked, attempting to pit them against each other. The two tributes attempt suicide by nightlock berries, but they are stopped by another announcement proclaiming them both the victors.
The tributes' defiance inspires civil unrest throughout the nation.
Sometime after the conclusion of the 74th Hunger Games, the Head Gamemaker is executed for permitting the dual victory.

74th Victory Tour
The victors leave District 12 by train.
They arrive in District 11 and give a speech. One victor promises that one month of their winnings from the Hunger Games will go to the families of two deceased tributes, then the other victor thanks them for their assistance in survival in the Games. The district acknowledges their kindness with a three-finger salute. Peacekeepers immediately execute an elderly citizen.
The victors visit multiple districts.
In the Capitol, one victor proposes to the other. The President makes a surprise appearance to congratulate them, but wordlessly communicates that they have failed to quell the unrest in the districts.
Meanwhile, a district uses the night's special programming as an excuse to be out on the streets after dark, and they launch a full-scale uprising.
After this, the victors attend a party at the president's mansion, and one victor meets the new Head Gamemaker. He shows her his mockingjay watch, giving her a hint about the twist of the 75th Hunger Games arena: that it will be like a clock, with a new threat in a particular section each hour.
The victors return to District 12.
Within forty-eight hours of its beginning, Peacekeepers put down the district uprising. Afterwards, they institute a week-long lockdown, during which they air televised executions.
After a week, when the lockdown ends and regular work resumes, the Capitol bombs the district factory where the uprising had been planned.

Late 74 - early 75 ADD
A district's Head Peacekeeper is suddenly and quietly replaced. A citizen is arrested for poaching and viciously whipped in the town square.
A victor is whipped across the face when attempting to intervene, but other victors are able to deescalate the situation. The new Peacekeeper backs down, and the victors and several coal miners are able to carry the citizen to the Victors' Village for treatment.
The Peacekeeper has machine gun nests placed on the rooftops of buildings, decorated their facades with patriotic banners, installed whipping posts, several stockades, and a gallows. He also has Peacekeepers burn down a black market hub.
For two weeks, the mines stay closed, and half the district is starving. Children sign up for tesserae, but their grain and oil never arrives, and food shortages begin.
The mines reopen, wages are cut, and hours are increased. Parcel Day food deliveries arrive spoiled and defiled, and the price of food constantly increases.
The Peacekeeper enforces long-ignored laws with his recent installations in the square.
One day, a crate of wedding dresses arrives for a victor from the Capitol.
A victor meets refugees at a lake on their way to District 13. They learn rumors that 13 is still out there, and the victor gets stuck out in the woods behind the electrified fence.
The victor makes it over the fence, breaking an ankle. She returns home to find two Peacekeepers there to inform her that the fence will be electrified around-the-clock.
The victor sees a news story about the Dark Days showing old footage after the destruction of District 13.
A few days later, the victor sees the same shot in a supposedly live broadcast from the ruins, confirming the refugees' narrative.

75 ADD
A victor's photo shoot is held. Pictures are taken in many different wedding dresses.
By this time, a district has been in revolt for several weeks, resulting in shortages that are explained away as a consequence of bad weather. There are also shortages of gadgets and fabrics from other districts.
There are rumors of uprisings in other districts.
A special is hosted showing photos of a victor in her gowns.
Once the program concludes, the President announces the Quarter Quell rule for the upcoming 75th Hunger Games. He declares that the tributes will be reaped from the existing pool of victors.
After an emotional breakdown, victors meet to discuss the implications of the Quell.
In the Capitol, voting on a victor's wedding dress ends.
Victors train daily to prepare for the Games, exercising in the morning, honing their combat skills in the afternoon, and watching recaps of living victors' Games at night.

75th Hunger Games
The reaping is held for the 75th Hunger Games. Two victors are reaped, but another victor volunteers in one's place. The tributes are denied a goodbye, and they are taken directly to the train to the Capitol.
Tributes arrive in the Capitol and attend the Tribute Parade.
During training, one victor impresses the other tributes with archery, so much so that most request to be her allies.
In private sessions, one tribute paints a portrait, and another tribute hangs a practice dummy. They both get perfect scores, the first to ever do so in the history of the Hunger Games.
During tribute interviews, each of the victors make an impassioned or angered plea to both the audience and their fans regarding the Quell, hoping to get the Games cancelled. While their efforts are futile, they nevertheless gain immense sympathy from the crowd, who are deeply upset at the prospect of losing so many of their favored victors.
During one victor's interview, her wedding dress transforms into a dress resembling a mockingjay when she spins and the dress catches on fire.
During another victor's interview, he claims that a fellow tribute is pregnant, sending horrified shocks through the audience who begin openly calling for the Games to be stopped. As the victors hold their hands in a show of unity and defiance, the interviews abruptly end and their recaps cancelled, as minor civil unrest erupts through the Capitol.
The 75th Hunger Games begin.
Immediately prior to the start of the Games, a stylist is beaten into unconsciousness by Peacekeepers and dragged away in front of a tribute as she ascends her launch tube into the arena.
Eight victors die during the bloodbath. Two tributes solidify an alliance with two other victors, fleeing into the jungle while the Career pack takes control of the Cornucopia. One tribute accidentally hits the arena’s force field, severely shocking him and stopping his heart. He survives thanks to another victor’s use of CPR.
The arena's clock mechanism comes into effect at midnight.
A victor is caught in a rain of blood. Blinded, he runs into the force field, stopping his heart.
Two tributes and their allies are accosted by a poisonous fog. One ally sacrifices herself to allow the group to escape, and she dies enveloped by the fog.
Two tributes and an ally are confronted by a pack of monkey mutts. As they flee to escape, one tribute is attacked, but is saved by another tribute, who sacrifices her life to protect him.
On the beach, tributes and an ally witness a wave.
They encounter and ally with other victors.
A victor informs everyone that the arena is a clock, and they head to the Cornucopia to gather weapons, as well as to observe and verify. After some time, they're ambushed by the Careers; one victor is killed, her killer is killed, and another Career is killed. Two Careers get away, and before the other alliance can pursue, the Cornucopia and its island spin around to disorient them.
The group leaves the island. Two victors are caught in the jabberjay sector, and they are tortured by screams for an hour.
A victor proposes a plan to kill off the remaining Careers using wire and a lightning tree.
One victor hits another over the head with a coil of wire and cuts out her tracker before leaving to distract two Careers. Shortly after, one Career kills another victor, and a tribute manages to kill the Career. A victor draws an ally and a Career to the lightning tree, planning to shoot one of them, but she realizes the plan and blows out the force field at midnight instead.

Second Rebellion
Several victors are extracted from the arena by rebels, while others are taken by the Capitol. A majority of the districts begin a revolt against Capitol authorities, marking the start of the Second Rebellion.
Fifteen minutes after the force field is blown, Capitol bombers arrive and raze a district in a massive bombing raid. Of the district's original population of approximately 8,000, only about 800 survive. The survivors watch from a lake.
In the opening stages of the civil war, communications go out in several districts. One district gains control of transportation, bringing hope of food to the other rebelling districts.
After three days in the woods, the district survivors are discovered and taken to District 13.
It is revealed to the wider populace that District 13 was not obliterated at the end of the Dark Days. Instead, District 13 secured its independence from the Capitol in exchange for not escalating the Dark Days into a nuclear war. It once again becomes the primary military benefactor of the rebel war effort.
A victor returns to the wreckage of her district, a captured tribute's first Capitol propaganda interview airs, and the victor decides to agree to be the Mockingjay.
The victor and District 13 leadership come to an agreement. The terms are announced to the district.
A district is heavily bombed, and the victor is sent there to film a propaganda piece. The field hospital she visits is bombed, but she and a friend take out Capitol hovercraft and get footage in the wreckage. The propaganda piece airs across the districts.
The propaganda piece boosts morale among district rebels, allowing them to take two districts.
The victor, her friend, and a camera crew return to shoot propaganda in her district, where the friend recounts the bombing and escape. The victor sings a song.
There's a live broadcast of a captured tribute in his final interview from the Capitol. A victor breaks into the programming with another victor's propaganda pieces, and the captured tribute issues a warning about an imminent air strike. An air raid alarm is issued, and District 13's citizens evacuate into a bunker.
Bunker missiles are launched at the district over the course of three days. Anyone on the first ten levels of the complex would have been killed, but due to the timely warning, no lives are lost.
With twenty-four hours of quiet behind them, District 13 resumes normal operations. Two victors are brought aboveground to film propaganda telling the nation that the district survived, but are unable to perform due to emotional distress. They are both sedated, and arrangements begin to rescue captured victors.
The victors film propaganda to distract the Capitol during an assault.
District 13 commandos successfully carry out the infiltration of the Capitol and secure the three captured victors.
The victors arrive in District 13. One is found to have undergone hijacking by the Capitol using tracker jacker venom, warping his memories and making him a threat towards another victor.
A stylist