Training outfits were clothes worn by tributes while they trained to compete in the annual Hunger Games.

For the first ten years of the Games, there was no training period. In any case, no changes of clothing were provided to tributes; they kept on whatever they had worn to their district's reaping right into the arena.

In one instance, a stylist sent tributes to the interviews in their training outfits and was placed on probation because of it.

In another instance, the Capitol provided the outfits for training and the arena itself, and thus everyone was dressed the same. By the time of the interviews, tributes had been wearing their training outfits for three days straight with them becoming worn and dirty.

Ahead of one Games, tributes' clothes were individually chosen by their stylists. Two stylists dressed their respective tributes exactly alike during the three-day training period. On the first day, they wore tight black pants, long-sleeved burgundy tunics, and leather shoes. Every tribute had a cloth square with their district number pinned to their back, identifying them to the Gamemakers.

In a film adaptation, the tributes all wore identical uniforms. They had black short-sleeved shirts with red and light gray stripes on the sleeves and underarms; black sweatpants with similar stripes down the sides; and black leather shoes. The only difference in uniform was their district numbers, which were printed on each of their sleeves and their backs.

During preparation for another Games, the tributes still wore outfits chosen by their stylists, assuming they bothered to show up for training at all. None of their outfits were described.

In another film adaptation, the tributes wore different uniforms to the previous year's. They had on black tank tops with light gray stripes along the straps; tight black athletic shorts with a similar gray stripe down the front, gathered just below the knee; and black track jackets with stripes and patches of light gray and gold. The tank tops' gray stripes were slightly different between the male and female tributes, with the females' stripes taking up less of the straps and coming down farther on the front.