Tributes were residents of Panem's twelve districts who were reaped or volunteered to participate in the annual Hunger Games. Except in special cases such as Quarter Quells, 24 children between the ages of 12 and 18 were chosen at random to participate. Every district had to send one girl and one boy to the Capitol, who then fought to the death in an arena until only one victor remained.

Each year, all children aged twelve to eighteen were separated into their respective age groups and designated to different areas. There were two glass reaping balls, one for the boys and one for the girls. Each one contained slips of paper with the names of the district's children. The district's escort picked one name out of each, and the two children they selected became that year's tributes.
However, not everyone's chances of being reaped were equal; children who were twelve were entered once, thirteen-year-olds twice, and so on until they were eighteen with at least seven entries. A child's name could also be entered more times if they opted to receive tesserae. For each tessera taken by a child, their name was added an extra time in exchange for a year's supply of grain and oil for one person. However, these entries were cumulative, so all entries were rolled over to the next year.

By rule, once a person's name had been chosen to become a tribute, another eligible boy or girl could volunteer to take their place. Normally volunteers were asked for after the chosen person is introduced. In some districts, Career Tributes trained all their lives to participate in the Games so they could volunteer for a chance at fame and glory. As a result, the volunteering protocols were different there. However, in poorer districts, participating in the Hunger Games was equivalent to a death sentence, so volunteering regulations were rarely used.

Quarter Quells were special editions of the Hunger Games that were held every 25 years. Each one had a cruel twist that would remind the districts of their failed rebellion, further punishing them for it and keeping the memory fresh. For example, one twist required each district to hold an election and vote in their two tributes. Another required the districts to send twice as many tributes. A third required each district's tributes to be reaped from their existing pool of victors.