The Victory Tour for the 74th Hunger Games celebrated co-victors. It began in District 11, cycled through all of the other districts, and ended in the victors' home district.

The victors were featured on the tour. They were accompanied by their mentor, their escort, their stylists, and their prep teams.

District 11 was the first stop in the nationwide tour. The victors noted on the way in the high watchtowers, the great security, the scarce people, and the shabby houses. After leaving the train, the team and victors were forced into an armored truck. Once they arrived at the Town Square, they realized that only a very small portion of the town was present; most of the rest were completing the harvest. A small platform was erected at the bottom of the stage for the dead tributes' families. The mayor gave a speech in the victors' honor, and two girls handed them each a bouquet of flowers. After a scripted reply, one victor began personal comments about the fallen tributes, then added that they would be giving the tributes' families one month of their tribute winnings for the duration of their lives. The mayor presented the victors with a plaque. Shortly before the end of the ceremony, a tribute's sister gave a reproachful look, prompting a sentimental speech. Following this, an old man whistled a four-note song and signaled the crowd to give the three-finger salute, an old ritual to show admiration and respect. One victor was then hurried inside, but returned to the veranda to find two Peacekeepers shooting a bullet into the old man's head before the crowd. Two bullets rang out moments afterward.

Districts 10 through 4 were part of the same routine done in District 11, with the exception that the speeches were provided by the Capitol, and no personal remarks were made. Some districts cheered one victor's name in vengeance and fury rather than a celebration. One victor wore a green dress in a district.

For one district's male tribute, only one woman was present, while four of the female tribute's relatives attended. The district was one of the districts that cheered as a sign of rebellion.

One district was hard for a victor as its tributes could have made it home together if it wasn't for the victors. The two victors avoided eye contact with the families. In this district, a victor wore a deep blue velvet dress with diamonds.

Another district was described as its own kind of awful as a victor personally killed its tributes.

The Capitol appearance began with the victor interviews. During this interview, one victor publicly proposed to the other. The president made a surprise appearance to congratulate the victors on their engagement. During the appearance, the president hinted to one victor that she failed to convince him.
The Victory Dinner was held in the president's mansion. The roof had been transformed to look like the night sky. One victor tried to eat some of each of the never ending line of exquisite dishes, but failed after ten tables. A stylist handed a victor a small bottle of clear liquid, which would make him vomit in order to empty his stomach and eat more food, but this disgusts the two victors and he refuses.
One victor discovered that a pin had become a fashion accessory in the Capitol, and a variety of items had been crafted into its likeness. A stylist introduced the victors to a Gamemaker, who then showed the victor a hologram watch and said his Gamemaker's meeting started at midnight. Although she failed to realize it at the time, this was a hint about the arena used in the upcoming Games.

The celebrations in the winning tribute's district always occurred on the last day of the Harvest Festival. Since the Capitol threw the event, the entire district had full stomachs that night, which rarely happened. A dinner was held at the mayor's house for the victors and their families. After getting ready for dinner, one victor stopped by the mayor's office, where she learned of an uprising in another district from his television.