Weapons were prominent features of the Hunger Games event. At the beginning of every Games, weapons were among the principal supplies found at the Cornucopia, and were initially acquired during the bloodbath. Tributes who did not obtain weapons at this stage had to acquire them later, either from the Cornucopia itself or from another tribute. Weapons were also sometimes sent to tributes as sponsor gifts from their districts and mentors.

Outside of the Hunger Games, the ownership of weapons was strictly prohibited. In order to prevent uprisings and rebellions in the districts, the only individuals permitted to own weapons were the Peacekeepers. While her father could have made money from selling bows, he would have been publicly executed for inciting a rebellion if he got caught. Despite this, hunting was technically illegal, though some Peacekeepers overlooked it.
Ownership of utilitarian weapons, such as knives, seemed to be permitted, since they were used for everyday purposes. The industries of certain districts presumably involved the use of weapons under extremely close observation, including spears, nets, and tridents in one district, and axes in another.
The main exception to these restrictions was one district, which gained political independence from the Capitol and was able to stockpile a vast arsenal of firearms, missiles, and other military equipment. During a rebellion, the rebels were able to acquire sufficient weapons and support to wage war. Legal restrictions on weapon ownership following the war are unknown, but it is implied that the district citizens have much more freedom to own and use weaponry.

An awl can take various forms, but typically consists of a slender spike and some form of handgrip. More of a tool than a weapon, it is traditionally used in handicrafts such as wood and leather working.

An axe is an implement that has been used for millennia to shape, split and cut wood. It has also been widely used as a weapon and as a ceremonial or heraldic symbol. Axes can take many different forms depending on their intended use, but generally, they consist of an axe head with a handle.
While axes are normally used as melee weapons, they can also be thrown, and some are especially designed for that purpose.

A blowgun is a simple weapon consisting of a small tube used for firing light projectiles, such as darts.

The bow and arrow is a projectile weapon that predates recorded history and is common to most cultures. It also becomes a weapon of choice in the arena.
The crossbow is a mechanized version of the bow and arrow. Rather than being held upright, the crossbow is mounted horizontally across the handle, or stock, and equipped with a trigger. Although it takes longer to load and fire than a traditional bow, it can be learned much more easily and the missile, or bolt, can be launched at any time without the physical strain of holding back the string.

Electrocution is a process involving electrical current and some form of conductor.

A land mine is an explosive device, concealed under or on the ground and designed to destroy or disable enemy targets as they pass over or near the device. Such devices are typically detonated automatically by way of pressure from the target stepping or driving on it, though other detonation mechanisms may be possible. The device may cause damage either by a direct blast or by fragments that are thrown by the blast.
Mines are deployed in front of the metal plates on which the tributes stand when they are delivered via the tribute tubes to prevent anyone from gaining a head start on the weapons and supplies at the Cornucopia. These mines are activated by pressure and are extremely sensitive. Once the minute is up, the mines are disarmed.

A knife is a weapon with a sharp blade and a handle. The length of the blade can vary but is typically shorter than a sword's.
A kukri is a style of knife where the blade curves forwards and down, rather than backwards and up like other curve-bladed knives.
In theory, most knives can be used as throwing weapons, but some are specifically designed for the purpose.

A mace consists of a length of shaft topped by a heavy weight. Historically, there have been many variations of this weapon; some heads may be spiked or have angular striking surfaces, and others may place the weight at the end of a chain, which in turn is connected to the shaft.
A bar mace is a narrow pole weapon consisting of a hand grip attached to two flattened metal bars intersecting at the middle, giving the weapon a "+"-shaped cross section. It is a simple but efficient weapon that can be used to bludgeon and hit opponents.

A machete is a type of heavy, long-bladed knife which can be used as an agricultural tool and as a weapon.

A net is composed of fibers woven in a grid-like structure. It blocks the passage of large items, while letting smaller items and fluids pass. It requires less material than something sheet-like, and provides a degree of transparency. Nets can be used to catch fish, birds, animals, or for ensnaring people.

A pickaxe is a mining tool that has a sharp metal spike on each side of its long handle. It is typically used for prying, but has also been adapted for warfare.

A pitchfork is an agricultural tool with a long handle and metal prongs fixed to one end.

Poison is a deadly substance that can kill anything that ingests it.

A scalpel chain is a weapon that almost looks like a metal rope with multiple spikes consisting further down the rope.

A sickle is an agricultural tool that is traditionally used for harvesting crops, but could also be used as a weapon. Typically, they consist of a short handle connected to a curved or crescent moon-shaped blade, and are used for slashing and cutting.

A slingshot is a projectile weapon that can be used to fling small objects such as stones at short distances.

A snare is a rope or wire that is tied to an object to trap prey and kill it.

A spear is a pole weapon consisting of a long shaft and a pointed head. Depending on the time period and culture, the head could take many different designs and be made from a variety of materials; the end of the shaft may simply be sharpened, or the head may be a separate piece made of more durable material and attached to the shaft. Spears are one of the few weapons that are always supplied at the Cornucopia.

The sunflower bomb was an explosive specifically designed to be safe, both chemically and structurally and couldn't be set off unintentionally by the user or anything else. They could only be detonated by being fully assembled and the fuse lit with fire.

A sword consists of hand grip, or hilt, attached to a blade. Depending on the design of the sword, it may be used primarily for cutting and/or thrusting, and the blade may have one or two edges.
A serrated sword consists of a short hand grip attached to the blade. One side is smooth and sharp while the other is serrated and pointed.

A trident is a three-pronged spear that can be used both as a weapon and for spear fishing. In addition to stabbing, the prongs on a trident can be used to trap other weapons and deflect them away from the wielder.

A baton is a long, narrow rod that can be made from many different materials. As a weapon, a baton may be used to strike, jab, block, bludgeon, and aid in the application of armlocks.

The Capitol was known to carpet bomb rebellious districts into submission.

Traps devised by Gamemakers, typically for use in a Hunger Games arena.
During one Games, a massive wall of fire was unleashed to force the tributes closer together in the arena. Fireballs were also shot at the tributes.
During another Games, one of the hourly obstacles encountered in the arena was a poisonous fog. Any skin that came in contact with the mist instantly erupted in extremely painful swellings, and too long or too heavy exposure resulted in death. Submersion in water helped to dull the pain and draw out the poison.
Gamemakers genetically engineered many twisted creatures to set upon tributes in the arena.

In this setting, guns are only authorized for use by Peacekeepers. The standard rifle could fire a hundred rounds before reloading. Other guns could convert solar energy into deadly rays of power, eliminating the need for ammunition.

Pods are Gamemaker-designed obstacles deployed throughout the city to kill invading rebels.

A water cannon is a device that shoots a high-pressure stream of water. Typically, a water cannon can deliver a large volume of water, often over hundreds of feet. They are used in firefighting and riot control.

A whip is a weapon, mostly used for punishment but also for combat. It is used by "cracking" the whip through the air, making it hit an opponent painfully. Whips also typically feature a hard butt that can be used as a bludgeon.

Having gained political independence from the Capitol, one district had its own supply of guns, which they distributed to rebel forces across all districts during rebellions.
Rebels bombed strategic locations.
In one district, there was an entire wall of archery weapons. In particular, a militarized bow was weighed down with scopes and gadgetry.
Simulated Street Combat training involved the possibility of triggering a mine in preparation for an assault.
During a rebellion, soldiers from one district were given suicide pills to swallow in the event that they were captured.
One squad was a sharpshooter unit created to film propaganda for the war effort. As a result, some members used special signature weapons alongside or in place of their standard-issue firearms.
A special bow was programmed to only recognize one user's voice. It was designed with a variety of color-coded arrows to go along with it as well: razor sharp, incendiary, and explosive.
A special trident was also made with its own special features. One feature allowed it to be called back to the wielder after it had been thrown.