

10th Hunger Games


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Type
	
	Regular



	
		Victor
	
	Lucy Gray Baird



	
		Victor's home
	
	District 12



	
		Arena
	
	Capitol Arena



	
		Head Gamemaker
	
	Dr. Volumnia Gaul



	
		Duration
	
	5 days (book)2 days (film)[1]



	
		Appearance
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Mentioned
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Preceded by
	
	9th Hunger Games



	
		Followed by
	
	11th Hunger Games



The 10th Hunger Games was the first Hunger Games to introduce mentors, recruiting twenty-four of the Capitol Academy's best and brightest seniors. Coriolanus Snow mentored the female tribute from District 12[2] and the Games' eventual victor,[3] Lucy Gray Baird.[4]
The Head Gamemaker was Dr. Volumnia Gaul. These Games were considered to be disastrous, partly due to Capitol students being killed during and before the Games, and all but one recording were deleted.[5]

Contents

1 Tributes
2 Arena

2.1 Capitol Arena
2.2 Known muttations
2.3 Arena uniform


3 Summary
4 Retrospective
5 Placing
6 Trivia
7 References



Tributes[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Games poster for the 10th Hunger Games as seen in The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes film adaptation. 		 	 
The 10th Hunger Games was the first Hunger Games in the series where every tribute is given at least a first name, and full names are given for every mentor.




District

Tribute

Age

Mentor


District 1

Facet

?

Livia Cardew


Velvereen

?

Palmyra Monty


District 2

Marcus

18

Sejanus Plinth


Sabyn

?

Florus Friend


District 3

Circ

?

Io Jasper


Teslee

?

Urban Canville


District 4

Mizzen

13

Persephone Price


Coral

?

Festus Creed


District 5

Hy

?

Dennis Fling


Sol

?

Iphigenia Moss


District 6

Otto

?

Apollo Ring


Ginnee

?

Diana Ring


District 7

Treech

?

Vipsania Sickle


Lamina

15

Pliny Harrington


District 8

Bobbin

?

Juno Phipps


Wovey

?

Hilarius Heavensbee


District 9

Panlo

?

Gaius Breen


Sheaf

?

Androcles Anderson


District 10

Tanner

?

Domitia Whimsiwick


Brandy

?

Arachne Crane


District 11

Reaper Ash

?

Clemensia Dovecote


Dill

?

Felix Ravinstill


District 12

Jessup Diggs

18

Lysistrata Vickers


Lucy Gray Baird - Victor

16

Coriolanus Snow

Arena[]
Capitol Arena[]
Main article: Capitol Arena
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Interior of the Capitol Arena. 		 	 
The Games were held in a dilapidated amphitheater that had been used for sporting, entertainment, and military events prior to the Dark Days, but fell into disrepair afterwards.[6] This year, the landscape of the arena was altered when a bombing opened up access to tunnels where tributes could hide. 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The snake mutts in their tank. 		 	 
Known muttations[]
The only muttations that appeared in these Games were small, brightly colored snake mutts. They had a heightened sense of smell, and they were highly venomous.[7] These mutts were released into the arena on the fourth day, and once bitten, victims' wounds seeped with bright pus. This was the first use of mutts in the Games.[2]

Arena uniform[]
The Games had not yet implemented uniforms, so tributes went into the arena in clothes they had worn since the reaping. Because of this, most of the tributes’ clothes were worn and improper for the event. For example, Reaper Ash wore patched burlap clothing, and he and his district partner Dill were both barefoot.[8] Wovey wore a filthy dress,[2] and Lamina wore what appeared to be a flour sack belted with rope.[9]

Summary[]
Pre-GamesThe Games
Reaping - Monday,[10] July 4th[11][]
Lucy Gray Baird was reaped from District 12. She slipped a snake down the blouse of Mayfair Lipp and made her way to the stage. She was struck by Mayor Lipp, Mayfair's father, nearly making her cry. However, the Covey began to sing to cheer her up from the crowd, and she joined in their impromptu performance. After this, Jessup Diggs was reaped as well.[4]

Arrival in the Capitol - Wednesday, July 6th[]
Two days later, Peacekeepers roughly pulled the tributes from the dirty cattle car they'd been transported in. Here, Coriolanus Snow met Lucy Gray, and he joined the tributes in a truck to the Capitol Zoo, where they were dumped into the monkey enclosure.[12]

Thursday, July 7th - Friday, July 8th[]
Tributes and their mentors met to gather information for records. Later at the zoo, Brandy from District 10 was shot dead after slitting the throat of her mentor, Arachne Crane.[13] The next day, Coriolanus finished his proposal for betting and sponsorships in the morning. While at Dr. Gaul's lab, Clemensia Dovecote was bitten by snake mutts[7] and taken to the hospital.[14]

Fallen tributes[]
Brandy (District 10)
Mentor deaths[]
Arachne Crane (Brandy's mentor)
Saturday, July 9th[]
Funeral of Arachne Crane[]
Arachne's funeral was held on Saturday, and the corpse of Brandy, Arachne's killer, was hung on a hook above the living tributes as they were paraded around the City Circle. Coriolanus then sang the national anthem, "Gem of Panem".[14]

Visit to the Capitol Arena[]
Main article: Bombing of the Capitol Arena
Later, after lunch, tributes and their mentors were taken for a tour of the Capitol Arena.[6] However, two bombs went off, one at the main gate and another in the stands. This killed both tributes from District 6, their mentors Apollo and Diana Ring, and injured the two tributes from District 9. The tributes from District 1 and 2 attempted an escape only to be shot dead by Peacekeepers. In her own escape attempt, Sabyn from District 2 fell to her death, but her district partner Marcus successfully got away. Three mentors were hospitalized: Coriolanus Snow and District 9 mentors Androcles Anderson and Gaius Breen. Most everyone present needed some degree of medical attention, but injured tributes were only treated by a veterinarian.[15]

Fallen tributes[]
Facet (District 1)
Velvereen (District 1)
Sabyn (District 2)
Otto (District 6)
Ginnee (District 6)
Mentor deaths[]
Apollo Ring (Otto's mentor)
Diana Ring (Ginnee's mentor)

Sunday, July 10th - Monday, July 11th[]
On Sunday, Coriolanus woke up in the hospital, and on Monday, he was visited by friends from the Academy. Outside, the Capitol and the districts were under heightened security due to Marcus's escape. During this time, the District 9 tributes were treated by the veterinarian, whose request to have them transferred into the care of a doctor was denied; as a result, both tributes died.[15]

Fallen tributes[]
Panlo (District 9)
Sheaf (District 9)
Tuesday, July 12th[]
In the early hours of Tuesday morning, Clemensia came to Coriolanus in his hospital room, showing him that her skin was turning to scales. She claimed that Dr. Gaul was trying to kill her. Later that day, Coriolanus was discharged from the hospital.[15]

Funeral of the Ring twins[]
By nine in the morning, a funeral was held for the Ring twins with a hologram of Coriolanus singing the anthem. The bodies of tributes who died were slung over the backs of horses, while the corpses of those who attempted escape were dragged behind them. The surviving tributes followed in two caged trucks separated by sex.[15]


Wednesday, July 13th - Friday, July 15th[]
On Wednesday, the remaining tributes and mentors began to plan for their interviews, if they chose to participate.[15] Coriolanus got a guitar from Pluribus Bell for Lucy Gray to use. Thursday and Friday were devoted to the tributes practicing in separate classrooms with their mentors.[16]

The Hunger Games: A Night of Interviews - Saturday, July 16th[]
In the evening of July 16th, the first interviews in Hunger Games history were broadcast across Panem. They were also held in front of a live audience in the Academy auditorium, hosted by Lucky Flickerman. Only half the remaining mentor-tribute pairs chose to participate. Mentors generally offered background information on their tributes, attempting to be memorable and urging sponsors to support them.[16] 

Jessup lifted his mentor, Lysistrata Vickers, over his head as she sat in her chair.
Circ claimed he could start a fire with his glasses; mentor Io Jasper suggested angles and times of day where this would be possible.
Juno Phipps admitted disappointment with her small tribute, Bobbin, until he told her "five different ways" to kill someone with a sewing needle.
Coral demonstrated her trident skills with a broomstick.
Domitia Whimsiwick got Tanner "so engaged in talking about slaughterhouse techniques that Lucky had to cut them off".
Felix Ravinstill attempted to talk up Dill, though she was so weak that even her coughs were barely audible.
Lucy Gray sang a song she wrote herself, "The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird".

Sunday, July 17th[]
The mentors were taken for a tour behind the scenes at the Games headquarters, where they were shown the drone prototypes for delivering sponsor gifts. Coriolanus decided to give Lucy Gray his mother's compact, telling her to use her own powder— meaning the rat poison in the tributes' enclosure at the zoo.[17] After more talk of strategy, Coriolanus and Lucy Gray kissed, and the tributes were taken away. Afterward, Hy from District 5 died of asthma complications overnight.[18]

Fallen tributes[]
Hy (District 5)
Day 1 (July 18th)[]
The 14 remaining tributes were placed in the center of the arena in a circle surrounding a pile of multiple weapons—there was no proper Cornucopia horn, as it was still early in the history of the Hunger Games. No food or water supplies were included in the pile. The District 2 male tribute Marcus, who had escaped and disappeared during the rebel bombings of the Arena, had been captured and strung up by steel poles in the air at the main entrance to the Arena and left to hang from his manacles, still alive and badly beaten.[18]
At the sound of the gong, most of the tributes ran for the tunnels which had been caused by the rebel bombings. Some of the stronger tributes; Coral, Tanner, Jessup and Reaper ran forward for the weapons but quickly ran away once they had gotten what they needed. Reaper was the only tribute to stay out in the open, armed with a pitchfork and a long knife. After seeing that none of the other tributes stayed to fight, Reaper climbed into a nearby stand to begin his hunt for the other tributes.
Later in the day, Lamina emerged from one of the tunnels and made her way over to the weapon pile taking a knife and a small axe. She then went over to the poles in which Marcus still hung from and began to climb up them. Once she reached the top and balanced herself on the beams she spoke to Marcus, possibly apologizing, before driving her axe into his neck three times, killing him. As reward for showing strength, Lamina was then gifted a bottle of water. 
As the afternoon progressed, only a few tributes could be spotted leaving their hiding places momentarily before disappearing again. Reaper remained in the stands and Lamina a top of of the beams, eventually she hacked away at the restraints still holding Marcus in the air sending his body falling to the ground. Lamina then received another sponsor, this time being a slice of bread. Lamina used her belt rope to sturdily fasten herself to the beam and then rested.
Circ and Teslee eventually appeared out of the barricade and moved over to Marcus’s body where the broken drones lay. The pair began examining the pieces of the drones, fiddling with the wires and causing the lights to blink. Circ and Teslee then received a sponsor of some water and bread before vanishing back into the barricade with the drones.
Reaper then appeared from one of the tunnels carrying his district partner, Dill, in his arms. Dill was most likely suffering from tuberculosis as she began coughing up blood once Reaper placed her down. Reaper went back into the barricade, leaving Dill by herself. She received two water bottle sponsors but she was too weak to even acknowledge them. Treech then appeared from one of the tunnels, took the bottles of water and quickly retreated back into the tunnels again. 
As evening approached, Dill started to convulse and spray blood from her mouth, before dying.[9]
Later that night, Capitol citizen and mentor to Marcus, Sejanus Plinth, snuck into the Arena to sit by and cover Marcus’s body in bread crumbs, a District 2 custom to wish the dead good passing into the afterlife. Coriolanus Snow was sent in to retrieve Sejanus discretely without alerting the tributes. Sejanus and Coriolanus attempted to take Marcus’s body back with them but were forced to leave it as Bobbin, Coral, Mizzen and Tanner appeared and attacked them. Coriolanus whacked Bobbin in the head with a plank of wood, killing him. Coriolanus and Sejanus managed to escape the Arena, keeping the tributes still trapped inside.[19][20]

Fallen tributes[]
Marcus (District 2)
Bobbin (District 8)
Dill (District 11)

Day 2 (July 19th)[]
In the afternoon of the second day, Sol began to climb onto the bleachers at the furthest end of the Arena. Coral, Mizzen and Tanner, who had formed an alliance, chased her down and Coral speared Sol through the throat with a trident.[20]
Lucy Gray was then chased out from one of the tunnels by a rabid Jessup. It was assumed he contracted rabies from being bitten by either a rat or a raccoon during his time in the monkey enclosure in the Capitol Zoo. Jessup cornered Lucy Gray up the remains of a concession stand. Due to the rabies, Jessup could not stand water, so Lucy Gray was sponsored numerous bottles of water by Jessup's mentor, Lysistrata Vickers. Seeing the bottles caused Jessup to enter a frenzy and he fell from the stands, the sound of his bones breaking audible to the audience as he hit the ground.
Lucy Gray comforted Jessup as he died, telling him that he could ‘sleep’ now. She then took some of the remaining bottles of water to hydrate herself and then used some of the water to clean Jessup's face. She then closed his eyes with a handkerchief given to her before the Games by her mentor, Coriolanus Snow. She received a sponsor gift of bread and cheese, collected them and exited into a near tunnel when she saw Reaper approaching. Reaper let Lucy Gray run into the tunnels as he took what water bottles remained and returned to the stands.[21]

Fallen tributes[]
Sol (District 5)
Jessup Diggs (District 12)

Day 3 (July 20th)[]
As the day started, Reaper went up to Lamina. They formed a mini alliance with Reaper giving Lamina scraps of the Panem flag to protect her from the sun; in exchange, Lamina gave him a piece of bread and a chunk of cheese. Reaper's disrespect of the flag angered the Capitol audience. A calmness came between the two tributes, but it was ruined when Mizzen, Coral, and Tanner appeared. Lamina warned Reaper of them, and he retreated to the barricade.
When the alliance reached directly under Lamina's beam, Lamina did not pay attention to them until Tanner smacked his sword on a pole. The alliance created a plan; Mizzen and Coral would coordinate climbing up the two poles while Tanner stayed at the bottom with their weapons, trapping Lamina. After a while, Lamina decided to confront the stronger Coral and swung her axe. Coral slid away, so Lamina went to Mizzen, who was on the beam but too distracted to catch the trident Tanner threw. This gave Lamina the opportunity to use the flat side of her axe to injure his knee, sending Mizzen down. Unfortunately for Lamina, Mizzen caught himself. As Coral reached the top, she yelled a loud war cry. She then plunged her trident into Lamina's abdomen, causing her to fall off the beam and die on impact.
Coral then helped Mizzen with his knee while Tanner did a sort of dance over Lamina's corpse. As Mizzen initiated a "victory slap", Coral stabbed her trident in Tanner's back. Mizzen finished him off with a knife to his neck. After the District 4 duo left to a tunnel, Treech came out to take his district partner's axe and receive food from sponsors.
In the late afternoon, Reaper awoke from his sleep and surveyed the damage, unable to comprehend the scene, and particularly Lamina. He walked around Lamina's and Tanner's bodies until he decided to carry Lamina's body to where Bobbin's and Marcus's bodies laid. He did the same with the remaining dead tributes, save Jessup, over the next hour. He then again infuriated the citizens of the Capitol by using another piece of flag to cover the dead tributes and making a cape for himself. His makeshift cape seemed to inspire him.[22]

Fallen tributes[]
Lamina (District 7)
Tanner (District 10)

Day 4 (July 21st)[]
The forgotten Wovey appeared mid-morning, to her mentor's delight. Her appearance was skeletal, with an empty bottle of water in her hand. Unbeknownst to her, though, Lucy Gray had put rat poison she received by Coriolanus in that bottle of water and left the bottle in the tunnels. Wovey only took  a few gulps of water from her sponsor gifts until she ceased motion, a silvery liquid trickling down her mouth.
Near noon, Reaper appeared and cautiously approached Wovey. He examined an apple and her face, suspecting her death was unnatural. He abandoned the food and water, but took her corpse and placed it with the others. By the time Reaper returned to the tunnels, the District 4 duo were eating Wovey's sponsor gifts, oblivious to her death.
In late afternoon, Circ and Teslee were in the arena's center, poking for something. Reaper was already at the stands. Treech then attempted to ambush the District 3 duo, but the duo fled for the barricade. The three become distracted by the large drone carrying a tank with Dr. Gaul's snake muttations. These snake mutts were sent by Dr. Gaul in retaliation for Gaius Breen's death after he succumbed to his injuries from the arena bombing. As the snakes shot out, Treech immediately climbed up the bleachers like a goat while the District 3 duo stared in a moment of confusion. When they finally noticed the immediate danger, it was already too late for Circ. The snakes left pink, yellow, and blue streaks on his body and he asphyxiated for about ten seconds before dying. Teslee managed to cling onto a pole, crying.
Not long after, Coral shrieked and ran out of a tunnel, Mizzen ahead of her. A snake dangled on her arm. Despite tearing it free, numerous snakes attacked her, leading to her blissfully short death. Mizzen flung his trident and leapt onto the pole opposite of Teslee, halving the first time he climbed it. Teslee cried for Mizzen's help as her grip on the pole weakened, but Mizzen only shook his head, shocked.
As the snakes began to target Teslee again, Lucy Gray emerged from the tunnels, softly singing. The snake mutts, recognizing her scent due to Snow having placed a handkerchief in a tank with her scent, flocked to her.[2] This gave Teslee the chance to reach a safer place. Lucy Gray than began an elaborate song as the snakes wove around her. After completing the song, she hummed to them, keeping them docile.
A storm rolled in, creating a dazzling sunset and killing the snakes mutts due to their inability to adapt to the cold and wet weather. During the night, the female tributes sought shelter in the tunnels or the barricade while the male tributes got drenched outside.[3]

Fallen tributes[]
Circ (District 3)
Coral (District 4)
Wovey (District 8)
Mentor deaths[]
Gaius Breen (Panlo's mentor)

Day 5 (July 22nd)[]
Sunrise came with the last of the clouds rolling out, leaving the arena wet with puddles. Both Treech and Reaper received food from sponsors, but as Treech ate his food hungrily, Reaper only drank from a puddle despite this having been the first time he received a sponsor gift since the start of the Games. Unknown to everyone except Lucy Gray, Reaper had contracted rabies when Jessup spit in his eyes before the Games even started, and this was a symptom of it.
Mizzen mimed eating to receive sponsor gifts, and Teslee revealed herself after a minute. She was armed with a drone she had hacked with Circ, blocking the homing direction of the drones. When she positioned herself under Mizzen, she flipped a switch and launched the drone, a cable tethered to her wrist. Mizzen was confused at first, and got distracted from the bread he received. The drone was normal for a while, but then suddenly attempted to make another delivery. More drones came and did the same, injuring Mizzen's eye. He attempted to escape the drones' torment, and gripped towards the pole he left Teslee to when the snake mutts were unleashed. In the process, he put pressure on his injured knee and lost his balance. This caused him to fall, snapping his neck.
While Mizzen was being attacked, Treech managed to climb down the scoreboard to attempt another try to kill Teslee. Right after Mizzen's death, Treech brought his axe down on Teslee's skull, killing her instantly. The drones sent for the dead Teslee were taken by Treech. After he took a dozen parcels, he left for the barricade. This left Treech from 7, Reaper from 11, and Lucy Gray from 12 in the top 3. Reaper proceeded to take the two bodies over to the rest, using a new piece of flag to cover them.
Lucy Gray finally came out just before noon and surveyed the arena. She poisoned a puddle with another water bottle with rat poison, receiving many drones of sponsor gifts. She saw Reaper, so she went the opposite way and checked which tributes were left alive. Treech attempted to ambush Lucy Gray, but Lucy Gray ran away on time. Just as Treech swung at Lucy Gray, she flung herself and clung to him, surprising him. She then grabbed a surviving snake mutt from her dress pockets and the snake bit Treech's neck, killing him. Before he died, he managed to kill the snake mutt by smashing it into the ground multiple times.
As the day grew longer, the hot sun dried up the many puddles. Lucy Gray received more food and water. She later attempted to drag Treech's body to the others, but Reaper shouted at her. She let go of Treech and went to the tunnels. Reaper then transported Treech's body himself, satisfied. Lucy Gray then put her plan into motion. Using the fact Reaper had not eaten much for many days, she tired him out by taking the flag pieces, getting him to chase after her. He was very insistent on keeping the corpses covered, and ran ragged to the point of exhaustion. Reaper then desperately drank out of the puddle the Lucy Gray had poisoned. He only just made it to the body of Treech and covered up only half of himself with a flag before his body gave out. After thirty minutes, Lucy Gray came from the bleachers to check his pulse and, finding nothing, closed his eyelids. She was then announced as the victor of the 10th Hunger Games.[3]

Fallen tributes[]
Teslee (District 3)
Mizzen (District 4)
Treech (District 7)
Reaper Ash (District 11)
Retrospective[]
These early Games lacked several features which would become prominent in later versions, while others were experimental. Nobody was said to be a "Career tribute" and there were no known volunteers. The tributes were not injected with trackers, so there was no easy way to tell at any given time if they were alive or dead if they didn't come out into the open. This had never been a problem before due to the openness of the arena, but became an issue in these Games due to the hiding places created by the rebel bombing. Since the Gamemakers could not easily tell when tributes had passed away, there were no nightly displays of those tributes who had passed away during the day. Additionally, the bodies of dead tributes were not removed by hovercraft, but were instead left in the arena to be dealt with or not dealt with by the remaining tributes as they saw fit. There were no stylists and thus tributes were not dressed in elaborate costumes prior to entering the Games. There were also no escorts. Sponsorship of tributes was available for the first time, though the drone delivery system used to deliver the gifts had not yet been perfected. Though Lucretius Flickerman was tapped to be the first ever host of the Games for a television audience, he only had previous experience reporting the weather and the broadcast thus lacked the polish of latter presentations. For the first time in the history of the Games, muttations were unleashed in the arena in the form of rainbow-colored snakes, specially bred by Head Gamemaker Dr. Volumnia Gaul.
Ultimately, Dr. Gaul considered these Games a disaster, presenting the Capitol as far too vulnerable. She erased all recordings of the Games, keeping only a master copy in her own personal vault for her own purposes.[5]
Before the Victor crowning of the 50th Hunger Games, now-President Snow arranged for Haymitch Abernathy to see the footage of Lucy Gray Baird singing to the Capitol audience. By this time, Lucy Gray had all but vanished from memory in District 12 and was considered District 12's mysterious victor.[23]

Placing[]
BookFilm
The Arena[]
1st - Lucy Gray Baird (victor)
2nd - Reaper Ash - poisoned by Lucy Gray
3rd - Treech - bitten by venomous snake mutt set upon him by Lucy Gray
4th - Teslee - axed in the skull by Treech
5th - Mizzen - neck snapped after attacks due to hacked drones from Teslee
6th - Coral - bitten by snake mutts
7th - Circ - snake mutts
8th - Wovey - poisoned by Lucy Gray
9th - Tanner - Coral drove a trident through his back and Mizzen knifed him in the neck
10th - Lamina - fell to her death after being attacked by Coral, Mizzen, and Tanner
11th - Jessup Diggs - died of injuries sustained in a fall; also suffered from rabies
12th - Sol - speared through the throat with a trident by Coral
13th - Bobbin - hit in the head with a wooden plank by Coriolanus Snow
14th - Dill - succumbed to tuberculosis
15th - Marcus - mercy killed by Lamina with three axe blows to the neck
Pre-Games[]
16th - Hy - succumbed to complications related to asthma
17th-18th - Panlo and Sheaf - killed by injuries sustained in the Capitol Arena bombing
The veterinarian treating them requested for the two to be treated by a doctor, but the request was denied. Their corpses were slung over the backs of horses during the Ring twins' funeral.
19th - Sabyn - fell to her death after jumping a wall at the river; had attempted to escape during the bombing
For their escape attempts, the corpses of Sabyn, Facet, and Velvereen were dragged through the Capitol streets behind horses.
20th-21st - Facet and Velvereen - shot dead by Peacekeepers while attempting to escape during bombing
22nd-23rd - Otto and Ginnee - killed by shrapnel during bombing
Corpses slung over the backs of horses
24th - Brandy - shot dead by Peacekeepers, after slitting the throat of her mentor Arachne Crane
During Arachne's funeral parade, her corpse was hung from a hook above the living tributes.
Nine tributes died prior to the Games itself, and the overall mentor death toll was four: Arachne Crane by Brandy; Apollo and Diana Ring in the bombing; and Gaius Breen later succumbed to injuries from the bombing as well. The loss of Capitol lives made the regime look too vulnerable: a contributing factor in the decision to erase all but one recording of the 10th Hunger Games.[5]
This section is in need of clean up and improvement.
 You can help The Hunger Games Wiki by improving it. 
The pacing of the Games, and the tributes' order and manner of death, were altered in The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes.

The Arena[]
1st - Lucy Gray Baird (victor)
2nd - Coral - killed by snake mutts
3rd - Reaper Ash - allowed himself to be overcome by snake mutts
4th - Mizzen - killed by snake mutts
5th - Wovey - killed by snake mutts
6th - Treech - inhaled rat poison Lucy Gray dropped on him
7th - Dill - drank water poisoned by Lucy Gray (indirectly); also weakened by tuberculosis
8th -  Tanner - speared in the chest with trident by Coral
9th - Lamina - speared in the chest with trident by Coral; also weakened by fall damage
10th - Jessup Diggs - died of injuries from a fall caused by drones sent from Lysistrata Vickers; also suffered from rabies
11th - Bobbin - bludgeoned in the head with concrete by Coriolanus Snow
12th - Otto - succumbed to stab injuries most likely inflicted by Tanner
13th - Marcus - mercy killed by Lamina with a clean blow from her axe
Cornucopia bloodbath[]
14th - Sol - speared in the back with trident by Coral
15th - Hy - caught in a net by Mizzen and killed by Treech
16th - Teslee - stabbed by Mizzen
17th - Circ - trident thrown into chest by Coral
18th - Sheaf - shot in the leg and back with a crossbow by Otto
19th - Panlo  - sliced in the abdomen by Tanner and speared in the chest with a trident by Coral
Pre-Games[]
Less tributes died prior to the Games in the film adaptation: 5 deaths as opposed to the book's 9.

20th - Facet - shot dead by Peacekeepers while attempting to escape during bombing
21st - Velvereen - shot dead by Peacekeepers while attempting to escape during bombing
22nd - Ginnee - killed during bombing
23rd - Sabyn - killed during bombing
24th - Brandy - shot dead by Peacekeepers after killing her mentor, Arachne Crane
The mentor deaths were also different in the film:

Brandy stabbed Arachne in the throat with a broken bottle.[1]
Clemensia Dovecote died off-screen after being bitten by Dr. Gaul's snakes.[24]
It was not Gaius Breen but Felix Ravinstill who succumbed to injuries from the bombing.[1]
The fate of the Ring twins in the film version is unknown.
Trivia[]
This is the first games where a victor was from District 12. The district would not have a second victor for another forty years, when Haymitch Abernathy won the 50th Hunger Games.[25]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 30

↑ 6.0 6.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 9

↑ 7.0 7.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ 9.0 9.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1 - On the day of the reaping, Tigris states that the previous day was Sunday.

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ 14.0 14.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 8

↑ 15.0 15.1 15.2 15.3 15.4 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ 16.0 16.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ 18.0 18.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 15

↑ 20.0 20.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 17

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ Was Snow Inherently Evil? And Other Burning ‘Hunger Games’ Questions Answered by Cowriter Michael Lesslie. TheWrap. Retrieved on June 10, 2024.

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 3






