

75th Hunger Games


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Also known as
	
	Third Quarter Quell



	
		Special features
	
	Victors competed again as tributes



	
		Victor
	
	None



	
		Arena
	
	Clock arena



	
		Head Gamemaker
	
	Plutarch Heavensbee



	
		Duration
	
	3 days



	
		Appearance
	
	Catching Fire
The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Mentioned
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Preceded by
	
	74th Hunger GamesQuarter Quell: 50th Hunger Games



	
		Followed by
	
	76th Hunger Games (unofficial)





"On the 75th anniversary, as a reminder to the rebels that even the strongest among them cannot overcome the power of the Capitol, the male and female tributes will be reaped from their existing pool of victors."
—President Snow announcing the 75th Hunger Games[src]
The 75th Hunger Games, also known as the Third Quarter Quell, was the final Hunger Games ever held in Panem. As a Quarter Quell, it featured a special modification to the standard reaping rules. During the Quell's announcement, President Coriolanus Snow read off a card stating that, to remind all the districts that even the strongest among them could not overcome the Capitol, each district would reap their tributes from their existing pool of victors. For these Hunger Games, Plutarch Heavensbee replaced Seneca Crane as Head Gamemaker. No victor was crowned because the Games were disrupted, leaving six tributes still alive.

Contents

1 Tributes
2 Arena

2.1 Sectors
2.2 Arena uniform


3 Summary

3.1 Pre-Games

3.1.1 Reaping
3.1.2 Tribute Parade
3.1.3 Training scores
3.1.4 Interviews


3.2 The Games

3.2.1 Day 1 - July 11th

3.2.1.1 Cornucopia bloodbath
3.2.1.2 Fallen Tributes: 8


3.2.2 Day 2 - July 12th

3.2.2.1 Fallen Tributes: 8


3.2.3 Day 3 - July 13th

3.2.3.1 Fallen Tributes: 2


3.2.4 Day 4 - July 14th


3.3 Rebel plan


4 Placing
5 Aftermath
6 Trivia
7 References



Tributes[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The tributes of the 75th Hunger Games. 		 	 
This year, tributes were reaped from a pool of 59 victors. The Career districts had the largest pools of victors, but each district had managed to secure at least one male and one female victor to meet this year's premise.[1]




District

Tribute

Age

Mentor


District 1

Gloss

27

Unnamed Victors


Cashmere

26


District 2

Brutus

40-49


Enobaria

28-31


District 3

Beetee Latier

55-59


Wiress

41-44


District 4

Finnick Odair

24


Mags Flanagan

80


District 5

District 5 male (75th HG)

40-49


District 5 female (75th HG)

30-39


District 6

District 6 male (75th HG)

?


District 6 female (75th HG)

30-39


District 7

Blight

?


Johanna Mason

21


District 8

Woof

?


Cecelia

around 30


District 9

District 9 male (75th HG)

?


Sylva Mayleaf

50-59


District 10

District 10 male (75th HG)

?


District 10 female (75th HG)

?


District 11

Chaff

45-48


Seeder

around 60


District 12

Peeta Mellark

17

Haymitch Abernathy


Katniss Everdeen

17

Arena[]
Main article: 75th Hunger Games arena
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The Plan of the 75th Hunger Games Arena. 		 	 
The Cornucopia sat on an island in the center of a large, round pool of salt water, with twelve rocky spokes radiating out to the mainland. Encircling the water was a strip of beach, with the jungle sloping up behind it. The only fresh water was stored inside the trees, and the Cornucopia only provided weapons. There were a number of food sources in the arena though, including nuts, "tree rats," and shellfish.
The arena was a circle designed to mimic a clock, divided into 12 sectors. For every hour, some form of torture or hazard designed by the Gamemakers would be activated in a specific sector of the arena. Each of the 12 sectors was assigned to a specific hour of the day, with the hazards assigned to the sector activating twice in one day at its appointed hour.

Sectors[]
12-1: Bursts of lightning hit a single tree.
1-2: Blood rains from the sky.
2-3: Corrosive fog spreads through the jungle.
3-4: Orange monkey mutts attack.
4-5: Jabberjays torture the tributes with their loved ones' screams.
5-6: Unknown hazard.
6-7: Unspecified muttation; Peeta called it the "Beast."
7-8: Unknown hazard.
8-9: Unknown hazard.
9-10: Unknown hazard.
10-11: A huge tidal wave drowns the whole sector.
11-12: From the sound of clicking, tributes speculated that it could be insect mutts with pinchers.
This cycle was repeated periodically to match the time, with each hour triggering a new event. Each event therefore occurred twice a day. The cycle began at midnight on the second day, and the Quarter Quell ended just after midnight on the third night, right as the fourth day would have begun.

Arena uniform[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss wearing her arena uniform 		 	 
The outfits in the book were fitted blue jumpsuits made of sheer, billowy material with zippers down the front. Each suit came with a six inch wide padded belt covered in plastic, which was filled with purple liquid and could be used as a flotation device. The shoes were nylon with rubber soles.[2]
In the film, every tribute wore the same outfit: a black wetsuit with white and gray accents and short white sleeves, though longer, removable black sleeves covered the rest of the arm. The use of black, white, and grey were supposed to represent a mockingjay. The outfit didn't come with a padded belt, and they wore black boots.[3]

Summary[]
Pre-Games[]
Reaping[]
Brutus and Enobaria volunteered to compete. In District 4, Finnick Odair and Annie Cresta were reaped as tributes, although Mags Flanagan volunteered in Annie's stead.[1]  Based on comments made by Effie Trinket, there's a possibility that Chaff volunteered as District 11's male tribute.[1]For District 12, Katniss Everdeen and Haymitch Abernathy were reaped as tributes, although Peeta Mellark volunteered in Haymitch's stead, despite some protest from Haymitch.[4]

Tribute Parade[]
Cinna's fire motif from the year previous inspired copycats in other districts. District 3's tributes were given outfits studded with electrical lights, and the pair from 10 were dressed as cows with flaming belts. Notably, Finnick Odair was draped in a golden net that was "strategically knotted at his groin", while Johanna Mason wore a zippered tree costume with forest green slippers and a headdress of leafy branches.[5]
Finally, from District 12, Katniss and Peeta both wore fitted black jumpsuits that covered them from the neck down, and they each wore a half-crown of heavy black metal. The suits had a button just inside the fabric around their wrists; when pressed, this gave the appearance of smoldering embers.[5]

Training scores[]
Because Katniss fired an arrow at an apple in a roast pig's mouth in her private session the previous year, a force field was put in place between the Gamemakers and the tributes for the duration of training.[6] This year, for her private session, Katniss hanged a practice dummy and painted Seneca Crane's name across its body.[6] In his own session, Peeta used the camouflage station to paint a portrait of Rue, Katniss's young ally who had been killed last year.[7]

"Predictably high" scores were given to tributes from Career districts— Gloss, Cashmere, Brutus, Enobaria, and Finnick— while "low to medium" scores were given to the rest. For the first time in Hunger Games history, Peeta and Katniss were both given scores of 12, making them instant targets as retaliation for their respective stunts.[7] 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The victors holding hands at the end of interviews. 		 	 
Interviews[]
Throughout their interviews, the assembled victors made a concentrated but ultimately futile effort to have the Quarter Quell cancelled. Cashmere and Gloss appealed to the audience's sympathies; Beetee questioned the legality of the Quell; Finnick recited a poem to his "one true love"; Johanna emphasized the bonds the Capitol has formed with victors; and Seeder and Chaff suggested that President Snow could use his power to change the rules.[7]
Katniss was made to wear a wedding dress that was voted on by the Capitol audience: heavy white silk with a low neckline and tight waist, with sleeves that draped down to the floor. Pearls were stitched into the dress, in ropes around her throat, and forming the crown for the veil. At the end of her interview, she spun around as she had the year before, and the dress burned away to reveal the same design in black, made of tiny feathers, with white patches on the sleeves: a mockingjay.[7]
In the last interview, Peeta falsely confessed that he and Katniss had already married secretly, and he claimed that she was pregnant, garnering the biggest audience reaction of the night. The anthem started to play to drown out the citizens' outrage, and with this chaotic backdrop, all twenty-four tributes stood together and held hands in a show of unity before the cameras were finally cut.[2]


The Games[]
Day 1 - July 11th[]
Cornucopia bloodbath[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss entering the arena 		 	 
Katniss is the first tribute to reach the Cornucopia, and she seizes a bow and arrows when she turns to aim at the next arrival, Finnick. He shows her that Haymitch has given him a golden bangle to wear, so she reluctantly goes along with him as an ally. Finnick spears the District 5 male with his trident and warns Katniss not to trust Districts 1 and 2. Enobaria and Gloss reach land, but Enobaria anticipates the arrow Katniss fires and dives into the water to avoid it. Gloss, meanwhile, gets an arrow to the calf and stumbles back into the water as well.[8]
Next, Brutus approaches with his belt stretched out in front of him as a shield. One of Katniss's arrows lodges into the belt, and before she can let loose another, he drops to the ground and rolls into the water. Then Katniss and Finnick take off along a spoke, and he swims to retrieve Peeta while Katniss covers him with her bow. At this time, she sees that the Careers have regrouped at the Cornucopia, and Mags starts paddling over to Katniss. Once the tributes from District 4 and District 12 are united, they seek refuge in the jungle.[8]
Meanwhile, Beetee uses his belt as a floatation device to get to the Cornucopia.[8] Once he gets there, he gets a shallow, six-inch-long cut across his back grabbing a coil of wire from the Cornucopia,[9] but he's ultimately able to get away alongside Wiress and the two tributes from District 7, Johanna Mason and Blight.[10] At some point amidst all of this, the District 6 male, Woof, Cecelia, both from 9, the District 10 female, and Seeder are killed.[11]
As Peeta cuts his way through the foliage, he accidentally strikes the force field surrounding the arena, stopping his heart.[8] Fortunately, Finnick performs chest compressions and mouth-to-mouth, saving his life. Haymitch sends them a sponsor gift they initially don't know what to make of, but Katniss eventually realizes it's a spile, and they use it to tap the trees for fresh water. Later that night. Katniss hears twelve gongs, which signal the beginning of the hourly horrors.[11]

Fallen Tributes: 8[]
District 5 male
District 6 male
Woof
Cecelia
District 9 male
District 9 female
District 10 female
Seeder

Day 2 - July 12th[]
Following a lightning storm and rain which doesn't seem to move closer to the alliance, they hear a cannon. Shortly afterwards, Katniss notices the unnatural uniformity of an approaching fog and wakes the others as her skin starts to blister.[11]
While fleeing through the jungle, Katniss and the others find their motor controls failing. In order for Finnick to save Peeta, Mags sacrifices herself by walking into the fog. Katniss, Peeta, and Finnick collapse in the jungle and notice monkeys lining the trees. They crawl to the lake to purge themselves of the fog poison. Then Peeta tries to tap a tree and they notice the monkeys again, at which point they are attacked. When Katniss runs out of arrows she beckons to Peeta for more, momentarily distracting him. However, when a monkey attacks him, the District 6 female appears from behind the foliage and sacrifices herself to save Peeta.[12] She dies on the beach as Peeta comforts her.[10]
Katniss and the alliance rest while Finnick remains on watch, grieving for Mags. In the morning, they receive a sponsor gift of skin ointment. Finnick and Katniss scare Peeta awake and receive another gift of bread from District 4. The 10 o'clock wave occurs and they hear a cannon[10] along with the District 5 female's scream.[3] Sometime later, Johanna, Wiress and Beetee join the alliance and fill them in on what happened to Blight. The cannon they heard before the fog signaled his death; blinded by blood rain, he ran straight into the force field, killing him instantly. Katniss and Peeta tend to Beetee's injuries and Wiress keeps mumbling "Tick tock". Shortly before 2pm, this leads Katniss to the revelation that the arena is set up like a giant clock.[10]
The alliance heads to the Cornucopia to verify their theory and resupply. Over a span of just a few minutes, Wiress is killed by Gloss, Katniss shoots Gloss, Johanna kills Cashmere, and the Cornucopia starts to spin. This disorients the alliance and removes their strategic advantage: the certainty of which sector corresponds to which hour.[9]
Finnick and Katniss then become trapped in the jabberjay section, where they're forced to listen to artificial sounds of their loved ones being tortured. Between 6 and 7pm, another cannon sounds and the District 10 male is collected in pieces by hovercraft, killed by an unknown mutt. The alliance settles down for the night again, and Peeta attempts to persuade Katniss not to sacrifice her life for his.[13]

Fallen Tributes: 8[]
Gloss
Cashmere
Wiress
Mags Flanagan
District 5 female
District 6 female
Blight
District 10 male

Day 3 - July 13th[]
The next day, Beetee comes up with a plan to kill off the remaining Careers. The plan, as he tells it, is to take the coil of wire down to the beach, flee into the jungle in another sector, and leave Brutus and Enobaria to be electrocuted on the wet sand.[14]
Katniss and the others make it to the tree in ample time, and Beetee has Katniss and Johanna take the wire and take it to the beach as quickly as possible. On their way down, the wire snaps. Johanna knocks Katniss over the head with the coil of wire and cuts her arm, telling her to stay down. Once Katniss gathers her strength, she leaves to look for Peeta, and Finnick calls out looking for Katniss and Johanna. A cannon fires,[15] signaling that Brutus has killed Chaff.[16]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The destruction of the force field. 		 	 
After coming upon the wire again, Katniss follows it back to the lightning tree; there she comes upon an injured Beetee, who has attempted to drive a knife into the force field. Katniss begins calling out to Peeta to draw the other tributes to her. Finnick and Enobaria reach the tree at the same time, and Katniss, hidden up on the slope above them, aims to kill Enobaria when a second cannon fires:[15] in the jungle, Peeta has killed Brutus,[16] and now he calls out for Katniss. She recalls something Haymitch told her— "You just remember who the real enemy is"— and wraps the wire around her arrow. When the lightning strikes, she shoots the force field, blowing it out.[15]

Fallen Tributes: 2[]
Brutus
 Chaff
Day 4 - July 14th[]
Following the destruction of the force field, Katniss, Finnick, and Beetee are recovered by District 13 rebels and evacuated back to the district shortly after midnight. Meanwhile, Johanna, Peeta, and Enobaria, having been left behind in the arena, were taken into custody by the Capitol as hostages.[17] With the abrupt disruption of the 75th Hunger Games and subsequent onset of the Second Rebellion, the Quell effectively ended with no declared victor. 


Rebel plan[]
In this year's Games, the tributes from Districts 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and 11 had varying degrees of knowledge about a plan to break the tributes out of the arena. They were also willing to give up their lives in order to keep Katniss alive, because her status as a symbol of rebellion was vital to the movement. Plutarch Heavensbee had ensured that the coil of wire would be at the Cornucopia, and Beetee was supposed to blow the force field. Sponsor gifts of bread were used to convey to rebel tributes the day and hour to carry out the mission: twenty-four rolls from District 3,[13] indicating midnight at the end of the third day.[17]
Seemingly, Johanna's role was to protect Beetee,[10] up until the final stage where Katniss became her responsibility.[15] She cut Katniss's tracker out of her arm and led Brutus and Enobaria away, ensuring that the rebels could extract Katniss by hovercraft without being followed or shot down by Capitol forces.[17]
Finnick's role seemed to be to protect Katniss and Peeta throughout the Games, but his role in the final stage is unclear. Based on the fact that Finnick left the lightning tree to look for Katniss and Johanna,[15] the wire being cut was probably the work of the Careers rather than a part of the rebel plan, and Peeta may not have been his primary responsibility.
Chaff's involvement is nearly certain because he was able to meet up with Peeta in the lightning sector, suggesting that he may have known something about the plan. However, his role in it is entirely unknown, as he was killed by Brutus.[16]

Placing[]
Final 6 - no victor
Captured by the Capitol - Enobaria, Johanna Mason, Peeta Mellark
Rescued by District 13 - Katniss Everdeen, Beetee Latier, Finnick Odair
7th (Day 3) - Brutus - Killed by Peeta [shortly before 12am]
8th (Day 3) - Chaff - Killed by Brutus [before 12am]
9th (Day 2) - District 10 male - Ripped apart by an unidentified mutt [6-7pm]
10th (Day 2) - Cashmere - Killed by Johanna with an axe to the chest [3-4pm]
11th (Day 2) - Gloss - Shot in the throat by Katniss [3-4pm]
12th (Day 2) - Wiress - Throat slit by Gloss [3-4pm]
13th (Day 2) - District 5 female - Killed by tidal wave [10am]
14th (Day 2) - District 6 female - Bitten in the chest by a monkey mutt, died on the beach [3-4am]
15th (Day 2) - Mags - Killed by poisonous fog [2-3am]
16th (Day 2) - Blight - Blinded by the blood rain and ran into the force field [1-2am]
17th-23rd (Day 1) - Killed in the Cornucopia bloodbath
District 6 male, Woof, Cecelia, District 9 male, District 9 female, District 10 female, and Seeder
24th (Day 1): District 5 male - Impaled by Finnick's trident
Aftermath[]
Fifteen minutes after the force field was blown, the Capitol carried out the bombing of District 12,[18] and the Second Rebellion broke out. The Hunger Games themselves were rendered defunct as the civil war progressed through the remainder of the year. By winter of 75 ADD, the rebels had liberated all of the districts and subseqeuntly overthrew of the Snow regime. Following this, the Hunger Games were officially abolished by the new democratic administration headed by President Paylor.

Trivia[]
The prequel novel, The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, confirmed that the reaping was held annually on July 4th.[19] Katniss's description of pre-Games events spanned seven days (July 4th-10th), and the Games lasted for three days after that (July 11th-14th).
This was the shortest (second shortest per the films) known Hunger Games, lasting 3 whole days when the Quell was abruptly ended just after midnight on Day 4 (July 14th).
Katniss, Beetee, and Finnick were rescued after midnight on July 14th. This coincides with the anniversary of the Storming of the Bastille, when French insurgents freed inmates at a political prison.
This is the only Hunger Games where the age restriction (12-18) was ignored. At 17 years old, Katniss and Peeta were the only tributes under the age of 18 this year and were the only two victors still of reaping age.
The next youngest tributes were Johanna and Finnick, who were 21 and 24, respectively.
The oldest tribute in the arena was Mags at 80, with the next known oldest tribute being Woof, who was in his seventies.
The Rebel alliance had the second largest non-Career alliance and third largest overall known in Hunger Games history, consisting of fourteen members.
The 50th Hunger Games had the largest non-Career alliance and largest overall ever in the Newcomers, several of whom were also rebels, consisting of 32 tributes.
Katniss and Johanna were both the only living female victors from their districts, leaving their participation in the Quell a certainty.[1]
In the Third Quarter Quell, 18 out of 24 tributes (75%) were dead within three days. Most casualties were caused by other tributes, with only five being caused by the clock arena's mutts and traps.
In the Second Quarter Quell, 18 out of 48 died in the bloodbath alone, but it took four days to meet the same percentage because the number of tributes overall had been doubled from the usual 24. Nearly half the casualties were caused by Gamemaker traps.[1]
In the 50th Hunger Games, the only sources of safe food and drink in the arena were the Cornucopia and rainwater. In the 75th Hunger Games, this was reversed: the Cornucopia only provided weapons, so food and water had to be acquired from the arena itself or through sponsors.
Both the 50th and the 75th Hunger Games involved a plot by the rebels to destroy the arena and disrupt the Games.
Both Games and plots involved Haymitch Abernathy, Beetee Latier, Wiress, Mags Flanagan and Plutarch Heavensbee
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ 2.0 2.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 13

↑ 5.0 5.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ 6.0 6.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 Catching Fire, Chapter 17

↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 Catching Fire, Chapter 19

↑ 9.0 9.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 23

↑ 10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 10.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 22

↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 20

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 21

↑ 13.0 13.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 24

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 25

↑ 15.0 15.1 15.2 15.3 15.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 26

↑ 16.0 16.1 16.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 2

↑ 17.0 17.1 17.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 27

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 1

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1






