

"Foxface"


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	14 (film)[1]15 (The Hunger Games: Tribute Guide)



	
		Also known as
	
	(Jump to Trivia)



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute[2]



	
		Home
	
	District 5[2]



	
		Weapon
	
	Stealth, Knife (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female



	
		Height
	
	5'5"[1]





	
		Eye Color
	
	Amber (book)[3]Green (film)



	
		Hair
	
	Red (book[3] and film)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games (film)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Jacqueline Emerson







"And she's very clever, Peeta. Well, she was. Until you outfoxed her. "
—Katniss Everdeen to Peeta Mellark about Foxface[src]
"Foxface" was the female tribute from District 5 in the 74th Hunger Games[2]. Katniss Everdeen nicknamed her "Foxface" because of her sly, fox-like appearance[4][5]. 

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Reaping
1.1.2 Tribute Parade
1.1.3 Training
1.1.4 Interview
1.1.5 Bloodbath
1.1.6 The Games
1.1.7 The Feast
1.1.8 Death




2 Tactics
3 Physical description
4 Personality and traits
5 Trivia

5.1 Name


6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the strategy Foxface used in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, Foxface used a strategy of evasion and stealth. She avoided confrontations, stayed hidden, and survived by scavenging, foraging, and stealing from other contestants. She also observed other tributes from afar to decipher their plans. Her strategy ended in failure when she unwittingly consumed poisonous nightlock berries.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why was Foxface given her nickname by Katniss Everdeen?
						
				
				
					
						The female tribute from District 5 in the 74th Hunger Games was dubbed 'Foxface' by Katniss Everdeen because of her sly, fox-like appearance, characterized by her small size, red coat, and amber eyes. Her fox-like features were further highlighted in the movie where she had green eyes and wore her hair in braids resembling 'fox ears'.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the real name of Foxface in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						'Foxface' from the Hunger Games, a tribute from District 5 in the 74th Hunger Games, does not have a disclosed real name in English. Her nickname 'Foxface' was attributed by Katniss Everdeen, inspired by her cunning, fox-like features.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Foxface meet her end in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, Foxface, the tribute from District 5, died by unintentionally eating poisonous nightlock berries she had stolen from Katniss and Peeta. This fatal error resulted in her finishing 4th in the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of Foxface's character in the Hunger Games narrative?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, Foxface, a tribute from District 5, is known for her cunning and stealth. Her nickname, given by Katniss Everdeen, reflects her fox-like appearance. She survives without killing any other tribute, relying on theft from the Career's supplies. Her death is accidental, caused by the poisonous Nightlock berry while stealing food from Peeta and Katniss. She finishes fourth in the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
74th Hunger Games[]
Reaping[]
Foxface was reaped into the Hunger Games as the female tribute from District 5 in the 74th Hunger Games. She was one of the few tributes Katniss took note of at the Reaping.[2]

Tribute Parade[]
In the Tribute Parade, Foxface waved nervously to the audience from her chariot, while representing her district's main export (power) to the Capitol.[6]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 5 tributes in their Tribute Parade costumes. 		 	 
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			District 5 and 6 at the Tribute Parade. 		 	 
Training[]
In the novel, Foxface is never mentioned during training, nor was her training score given. In the film, she could be seen testing her knowledge of plants in a fast-paced matching test. Foxface received a score of 5 during her private training session with the Gamemakers.

Interview[]
During her interview with Caesar Flickerman, Foxface was nervous and quiet, only speaking one line in the interview, which was “I will always analyze the situation and apply myself”. In the bonus features of The Hunger Games film, Foxface says that she is very smart, and that "no weapon can match a brain".[6]
For her interview, she wore a light blue strapless dress with a ruffled skirt. She answered her questions fast and short. Katniss described her as being "sly and elusive"[7]. Later Katniss said that if all the tributes had took a test, she thinks Foxface would've been the smartest[8].

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Foxface during her interview with Caesar. 		 	 
Bloodbath[]
Like Rue, Foxface ran away from the Cornucopia bloodbath when she entered the arena as she had no weapons or supplies to help her. In the film, a scene was added where she and Katniss bumped into each other while fleeing the Cornucopia, but stared at each other in shock for a moment before going in opposite directions.[6]

The Games[]
Later on during the Games, she was spotted by Katniss at the Cornucopia near the Careers' camp. After skulking around to make sure she was unidentified by any of the other tributes, Foxface made a variety of movements, which Katniss described as a dance sequence. Foxface had a close encounter with death as she landed wrong in the Careers' minefield and squealed, but she kept going. Foxface demonstrated her cleverness by figuring out the path into the Careers' pyramid of useful supplies, reaching the bulk of supplies, taking a small, unnoticeable amount of supplies, and then running back to the safety of the woods.[9]
Katniss noticed a bag of apples hanging on the pyramid, which could well be some of the apples Foxface took from a burlap sack, and fired three arrows at it; the bag of apples ripped apart, fell, and set off the land mines. It caused a huge explosion after and destroyed all of the supplies.[9] This resulted in the destruction of the Careers' supplies, and the District 3 male's death by Cato's hands. In the ruins of the explosion, Katniss saw Foxface laughing as she was able to find a knife blade and a metal pot. At first, she didn't understand why but later came to the conclusion that with the Careers supplies destroyed, Foxface realized that she might actually stand a chance of surviving. At one point, Katniss considered letting Foxface into her alliance with Rue, but quickly dismissed the idea, suspecting Foxface would backstab her.[10]

The Feast[]
After several days in the arena, all the remaining tributes needed something desperately. Due to this, Claudius Templesmith announced that there would be a feast.[5] Foxface, as well as the other tributes, prepared herself for the upcoming event.
When the other tributes arrived at the feast, Foxface was already well hidden within the Cornucopia. When the table rose from the ground with the bags containing each of the tributes' items that they "desperately needed," Foxface didn't waste her time with battle; instead, she sprinted out, took her bag, and quickly evacuated the area. She was not attacked, as the other tributes feared to confront each other, and she was very quick. Katniss was both impressed and angry that she had not come up with a plan so risky and devious. Katniss pulled out one of her arrows to shoot at Foxface, but let her grab her backpack and flee back into the woods.[11] Foxface's green pack most likely contained food, as her strategy was to stay hidden and avoid any confrontation between any of the tributes. Throughout the games, she managed to survive by scavenging, foraging and occasionally stealing from other contestants[9]. This strategy worked until she unwittingly stole and ate poisonous nightlock berries from Katniss and Peeta[8].

Death[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Foxface after eating the nightlock berries. 		 	 
Foxface placed 4th in the Games. Katniss and Peeta found her body holding nightlock berries Peeta had collected, which she stole and ate.[12] Katniss believed that if Peeta had known about the poison and was attempting to trick Foxface, she would have known not to eat them and could have won.[8] Katniss questions the circumstances of her death. When her body was then taken away by a hovercraft, Katniss mentioned that her body was emaciated, so she would've died sooner or later from her lack of food supplies.[12]

Tactics[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Foxface's profile in The Hunger Games: Tribute Guide. 		 	 Foxface avoided confronting the other tributes and kept a reasonable distance between her and anyone else. She intelligently observed other tributes from afar, which allowed her to understand their plans. She took an unnoticeable amount of food from others without their knowledge, and was careful when she was in the Careers' camp, for she knew that it contained mines[9]. She was clever enough to trace a path through the mines where she could step without being blown to pieces[9]. She had no alliances with other tributes and kept completely to herself.
She also demonstrated the attribute of being wily, when she deciphers a path through the explosives to reach the Careers' pyramid of food and supplies, making sure to take enough to survive, but not so much that it would be noticed by the others when they arrived back at their camp[9]. She was independent, always working alone and was sly, elusive, and probably untrustworthy[10].

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Foxface in the Training Center. 		 	 
Another one of her clever ideas was demonstrated at the feast. Foxface hid in the Cornucopia, waiting for the others to come[12]. She didn't waste time with a battle — she ran up, snatched her bag, and quickly evacuated the area. No one would follow her in fear of not getting their own bags, containing something they "desperately needed", taken away by another tribute. Katniss was also envious of her plan, how strategic and risky it was, and how it trapped the other tributes.[11]
Foxface was careful not to make enemies[10][11] or even to make herself noticed[9]. Remarkably, she managed to get through to the final four tributes without making a single kill, showing either her morals, luck, or her intelligence.

Physical description[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Foxface's Tribute Identification Card. 		 	 
Foxface had sleek red hair, and Katniss compared her face to that of a fox, inspiring her nickname.[2] Katniss later recognized the wolf mutt that resembled her based on its small size, red coat, and amber eyes.[3] In the movie, her eyes were green, and she wore her hair in two animal ear-like braids (also known as "fox ears") in the arena.[6]

Personality and traits[]
Foxface proved to be one of the smartest, trickiest, and stealthiest tributes in the Games. She demonstrated this several times throughout the book by doing various things, such as stealing supplies from other tributes, letting herself to become a forgettable tribute in order to not draw attention to herself[9], and she could find things that others didn't look hard enough for[10].

Trivia[]
She is the first character introduced to be from District 5.
In the film, Foxface's odds of winning were 7–1, the same as Glimmer.
Foxface is often confused with the District 9 female because they are around the same size and both have red hair.
Foxface, Katniss, and Peeta are the only known tributes to receive training scores that matched the number of their district (12 in the 75th Hunger Games for both of them, and 5 for her in the 74th).
Foxface was the last female tribute to die in the 74th Hunger Games, and she was the lowest scoring tribute in the final eight. She finished fourth in the novel and fifth in the movie.
Foxface is from District 5, received a training score of 5, placed 5th in the movie, and is 5'5" in height.
Foxface's actress, Jacqueline Emerson, has said she made up a little story in her mind for Foxface so it wouldn't bother her that her character rarely spoke.
A common source of fan speculation is whether Foxface's death was an accident or an intentional act of suicide.
At the Los Angeles premiere of The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes on November 13, 2023, Jacqueline Emerson was asked to share her opinion on the theory. She said that director Gary Ross told her Foxface's death was accidental; however, Emerson personally believed it was suicide because the film showed the character quizzing herself on plants.[13]
Name[]
Although Foxface's real name is never revealed in the books, she is given a name in subsequent material.
In the film adaptation of The Hunger Games, Caesar calls her Finch during her interview. In various dubs of the film, including Brazilian Portuguese, Spanish and Italian, Caesar also refers to her as Finch, alternatively spelled as Fynch in some subtitles. The English audio description of the film also calls her Finch. However, in an early draft of the film's script, Caesar mentions that Foxface's name is Marissa during the interview.[14]
In The Hunger Games On Stage, her name is Fossa.[15] This name may be derived from fossil fuel, related to District 5's industry of power.
It could also be in reference to a fossa, an animal similar in nature to a fox, known for their solitude and stealth.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 File:Full stats board.png

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 The Hunger Games, Chapter 3

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 The Hunger Games, Chapter 25

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 11

↑ 5.0 5.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 20

↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 The Hunger Games film

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 9

↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 The Hunger Games, Chapter 24

↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 9.3 9.4 9.5 9.6 9.7 The Hunger Games, Chapter 16

↑ 10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 The Hunger Games, Chapter 17

↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 The Hunger Games, Chapter 21

↑ 12.0 12.1 12.2 The Hunger Games, Chapter 23

↑ https://twitter.com/Variety/status/1724229263875063989

↑ https://assets.scriptslug.com/live/pdf/scripts/the-hunger-games-2012.pdf

↑ https://www.instagram.com/artemisstamouli/p/DNF1oGJKzUZ/





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





