 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The Academy Adventures logo. 		 	 
Academy Adventures is an officially licensed Roblox game created by Sawhorse Productions in order to promote The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Launch


2 Gameplay

2.1 Game mechanics

2.1.1 Missions

2.1.1.1 Registration
2.1.1.2 First Quarter
2.1.1.3 Second Quarter
2.1.1.4 Third Quarter
2.1.1.5 Fourth Quarter




2.2 Rewards

2.2.1 Cosmetics
2.2.2 Badges




3 Media
4 External links
5 Trivia
6 References



History[]
Launch[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Screenshot from the Hunger Games movie website promoting Academy Adventures. 		 	 
The game was launched on September 17th, 2023, first sent as a link to subscribers of The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes' Community feed before being posted across official social media, including the official website for the films.
Players are able to enter the game and explore a digital recreation of the Academy, in particular Heavensbee Hall, as students; however, initially only the building's exterior and the plaza around it were available. There was a several-day countdown to registration on September 20th, coinciding with the release of the film's second trailer. The game then displayed another countdown to the start of classes on October 1st.

Gameplay[]
The game's missions are split into quarters like a school year, with players having to complete registration before proceeding to the first quarter and onwards. By completing missions, players can unlock cosmetic items.

Game mechanics[]
The game has two main types of activities: scavenger hunts and quick time events (QTEs). In a scavenger hunt, the player explores the school and collects items by walking or running through them. In a QTE, the player has to press a button or key at the right time.

Missions[]
Registration[]
Students register with Dean Casca Highbottom, claiming allegiance to Team Songbird or Team Snake, before being sent on a scavenger hunt around the campus. Each player has to gather 25 of each collectible item: birds, guitars, roses, and snakes.[1]

First Quarter[]
The player speaks with Coriolanus Snow, who needs their help getting his essay onto Dean Highbottom's desk. He tasks them with collecting six keys from around the campus to get into the office.
Upon returning to Coriolanus, he then gives them the essay.
In the classroom, the player opens a series of vault doors, places the paper on the desk, and writes Coriolanus's name on it, completing the first quarter.
Second Quarter[]
The player speaks with Sejanus Plinth, who wants to collect leftover food from the cafeteria before it's disposed of. First, the player collects six banners from around the school.
Upon returning to Sejanus, he sends the player to the cafeteria.
In the cafeteria, the player follows Sejanus around the room from above, unrolling banners to distract people as he collects the food. Sejanus transfers the food to the player on the far end of the room, and they pack it all into a backpack, completing the second quarter.
Third Quarter[]
The player speaks with Clemensia Dovecote, who needs their help locating books in the library so she can write a paper about Dr. Gaul without the woman finding out. First, the player has to collect six books from around the school to clear their library card.
The player returns to Clemensia, who sends them to the library for six more books.
In the library, the player has to collect one book from each cabinet without being seen by the library monitor. Each time the player starts working on a cabinet, there is a time limit for them to grab the book without being seen. This timer resets between each one. Once the player collects all six books, they complete the third quarter.
Fourth Quarter[]
The player speaks with Tigris, who has been asked by a student named Alys to mend her ripped graduation robe. First, the player has to collect six items from Tigris's sewing kit that have gotten scattered around the school.
The player returns to Tigris and clears a path through the crowd inside Heavensbee Hall, guiding Tigris to the graduation stage.
On the stage, the player locates Alys, takes her gown, and helps Tigris sew it.
Lastly, the player heads up to the podium and throws their graduation cap. A short cutscene plays, and the fourth quarter is completed.
Rewards[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes Backpack 		 	 
Cosmetics[]
Early registration entitled players to earn a limited edition red backpack styled after Lucy Gray Baird's rainbow dress. 15,000 were available to claim.[1] Each subsequent quarter offers players a choice between two possible rewards upon completion of that section's mission. The fourth quarter graduation caps were also available in a limited quantity: 15,000 songbird caps and 15,000 snake caps.



Quarter

Rewards


First Quarter


Aura of Snow and White Roses


Golden Rose Crown


Second Quarter


ShareTheMeal Lunchbox


Lunchbox and ombre hairstyle


Third Quarter


Songbird + Snake Sunhat


Hat and green hairstyle


Fourth Quarter


Songbird Cap


Snake Cap

Badges[]
In addition to cosmetic items, players can also earn badges, which function as achievements.



Badge

Name

Description




Academy Enrollment

Congratulations! You’ve enrolled in The Academy and received your Syllabus, which contains everything you need to know to succeed here.




Trailer Complete

Impressive, you watched the all-new trailer of the upcoming film, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes.




Academy Orientation Complete

Wonderful work, you’ve completed Academy Orientation. Your journey to greatness begins now!




First Quarter Complete

Excellent work. You completed your First Quarter at The Academy. You have proven yourself to be a student of great integrity, and Coriolanus Snow expresses his gratitude for your assistance. The Academy Administration recognizes your promise, and looks forward to seeing you down a path of glory in the SECOND QUARTER.




Second Quarter Complete

Congratulations. You’ve completed your Second Quarter at The Academy. You’ve proven your ingenuity and mental dexterity, but perhaps more importantly, you’ve proven your kind heart. The Academy Administration marvels at your success thus far, and foresees continued greatness in the THIRD QUARTER.




Third Quarter Complete

Impressive. You completed your Third Quarter at The Academy. You’ve demonstrated your drive to help your peers, and your hunger for knowledge. The Academy Administration is thrilled by your performance thus far, and awaits your continued success in the FOURTH QUARTER.




Fourth Quarter Complete

Extraordinary, you’ve completed your Fourth Quarter at The Academy. You’ve proven your penchant for helping those in need. The Academy Administration salutes you on being an exceptional student, citizen, and friend to all.




Diploma Achieved

Take a bow, you’ve received an Academy diploma, an achievement that represents not only what you’ve learned, but the promise you continue to hold. The Academy Administration congratulates you on an incredible tenure at our institution, and hopes you’ll use the skills you’ve learned here to change Panem.

Media[]
Academy Adventures - The Hunger GamesAcademy Adventures – Presented By- The Hunger Games- The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes
External links[]
Academy Adventures on Roblox
hungergames.movie promotional website
Trivia[]
During the initial registration phase (September 20th to 30th), 8,500 backpacks were already claimed within the first day.[1]
The books on top of the Third Quarter sunhat are green, black, red-orange, and light blue, like the covers of The Hunger Games novels.
References[]

↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 https://www.instagram.com/p/CxddEp4JYqz/






