

Alan Ritchson


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Alan Ritchson



	
		Character
	
	Gloss



	
		Birthday
	
	November 28, 1984



	
		Birthplace
	
	Grand Forks, North Dakota, USA



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Years active
	
	2006–present



Alan Ritchson is an American actor and singer who portrayed Gloss in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire. He is best known for his modeling career and his roles in television shows such as Smallville, 90210 and Blue Mountain State.

Contents

1 Personal life
2 Career

2.1 Modelling
2.2 Television
2.3 Catching Fire


3 External links
4 References



Personal life[]
Ritchson was born in Grand Forks, North Dakota, the son of Vickie (born June 21, 1958), a high school teacher, and David Ritchson (born June 5, 1956), a retired U.S. Air Force Chief Master Sergeant. He is the middle of three brothers; Eric, the oldest, and Brian, the youngest. During his childhood, his family moved to Rantoul, Illinois. At age 10, Ritchson's family finally settled in Niceville, Florida. He attended Niceville High School and graduated in 2001. Performer Toby Turner was one of his classmates. Ritchson also tried out for American Idol and was knocked out in Hollywood week.

Career[]
Modelling[]
He began his modeling career in the Abercrombie and Fitch catalog; he also modeled underwear for the men's online underwear store internationaljock.com. In 2008, he was signed to L.A. agency Vision Model Management and appeared on N2N Bodywear. By early 2009, Ritchson made his final appearance in his modelling career for Abercrombie and Fitch.

Television[]
His television acting credits include a recurring guest star role on the TV series Smallville as Arthur Curry, a.k.a. Aquaman, a small role as an army officer in the 2006 Hallmark Channel movie Though None Go with Me alongside Cheryl Ladd, and the role of Lucian Manet in the 2009 Lifetime Original Movie, Nora Roberts' Midnight Bayou. His role in Smallville marked the first time that an actor portrayed Aquaman in an officially licensed live-action production. His Smallville co-star, Justin Hartley, has since portrayed Aquaman in an unaired pilot. Ritchson reprised his role as Aquaman for a cameo appearance in the animated film: Justice League: The New Frontier, and the final season of Smallville. In 2009, he appeared on a third-season episode of Starz's Head Case in which he played a male stripper. Ritchson also made an appearance on CSI: Miami, in which he played a dead victim in episode 19 of Season 8. He also appeared in Season 3 of 90210 as a love interest for main character Teddy Montgomery. He played Thad Castle in Spike TV's Blue Mountain State as a senior captain on a college football team, until the show was cancelled in February 2012, after its third season.

Catching Fire[]
In a behind the scenes featurette, Ritchson mentioned that he and Cashmere's actress, Stephanie Leigh Schlund, had quickly developed a "brotherly-sisterly kind of love" while filming Catching Fire. They messed around with each other on set, which created the sense of a real sibling relationship.[1]

External links[]
 Alan Ritchson at the Internet Movie Database
 Alan Ritchson on Wikipedia
Alan Ritchson on Instagram
 Alan Ritchson on X
References[]


↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire - Catching Fire's New Cast (behind the scenes featurette)






