

Alexander Ludwig


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Alexander Richard Ludwig



	
		Character
	
	Cato



	
		Birthday
	
	May 7, 1992



	
		Birthplace
	
	Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games film



	
		Years active
	
	2001–present



Alexander Ludwig is a Canadian actor who portrayed Cato, the male tribute from District 2, in The Hunger Games film.[1] 

Contents

1 Career
2 Trivia
3 External links
4 References



Career[]
He is best known for his lead role in Race to Witch Mountain. Ludwig also composed a single entitled "Liv It Up (Teenage Wasteland)." The song is about his euro trip with his high school friends. He also starred in the film Grown Ups 2, portraying Braden.
Ludwig has also worked as a model for Abercrombie and Hollister.
Ludwig graduated from the University of Southern California, where he studied theatre.[2] His mother, Sharlene, is a former actress and his father, Harald, is a businessman and a former co-chairman of Lions Gate Entertainment, the distributor and one of the studios behind The Hunger Games.[3]
He is best known for his acting in the History-Series Vikings. Since season 2 he represented Bjorn Ironside, son of Ragnar and Lagertha. He is still appearing in season 3, 4, and 5.
He has also starred in When the Game Stands Tall, and was in the 2013 film Lone Survivor.

Trivia[]
Ludwig originally auditioned to play Peeta Mellark, until he was recast for Cato.[4]
External links[]
Official website
 Alexander Ludwig on Wikipedia
 Alexander Ludwig on Facebook
 Alexander Ludwig at the Internet Movie Database
 Alexander Ludwig on Instagram
 Alexander Ludwig on X
References[]


↑ Brian Gallagher (05-11-2011). The Hunger Games Adds Alexander Ludwig and Isabelle Fuhrman. Movieweb. Retrieved on 05-12-2011.

↑ O'Rourke, Jill (August 20, 2013). 10 Celebrities You Didn’t Know Were In College Right Now. Crushable.

↑ Parry, Malcom (March 24, 2012). Hunger Games premiere a big night for West Van family. Vancouver Sun.

↑ Crossan, Ashley (June 9, 2016). Why Alexander Ludwig Is Glad He Wasn't Peeta in 'The Hunger Games'. Entertainment Tonight.






