

Ampert Latier


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (50th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 3



	
		Relatives
	
	Beetee Latier (father)Unnamed motherUnnamed younger sibling



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male





	
		Eye Color
	
	Dark brown (film)



	
		Hair
	
	Black (film)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Percy Daggs IV[2]







"Don't let him suffer."
—Beetee to Haymitch Abernathy about Ampert[src]
Ampert Latier was one of the two male tributes from District 3 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games.[3] He is the son of the District 3 victor Beetee Latier.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 50th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Death




2 Physical description
3 Personality
4 Relationships

4.1 Family
4.2 Haymitch Abernathy


5 Etymology
6 Trivia
7 Gallery

7.1 Stills

7.1.1 Trailer Screenshots




8 References



Biography[]
50th Hunger Games[]
Ampert was reaped for the 50th Hunger Games as punishment for his father Beetee coming up with a plan to sabotage the Capitol's communication system. Beetee was forced to mentor his son and also attend training sessions so he would watch the final days of his life.[4]
Before the start of the games, Ampert decided to build an alliance between tributes from non-career districts in an attempt to counter the Career pack. At his first training session, he quickly secured Districts 7 and 8, and approached Haymitch Abernathy to find out if 12 were interested in joining. Haymitch gave Ampert a pin to unlock his cuffs as he wanted to show Haymitch how useful he could be. He also asked Haymitch about the late Louella McCoy and that she was the one he made President Snow own. Haymitch was unsure about joining the alliance as he did not consider himself good enough.[1]
At the next training session, Haymitch had changed his mind and decided to join Ampert's alliance. He introduced his fellow District 12 tributes to them, and Ampert revealed he had also persuaded District 10 to join them. Buck had given him a lariat that Maysilee Donner fashioned into a braid necklace token for him. While he helped Maysilee, he told Haymitch that his father wanted to talk to him.[4]
At lunch, Ampert brought the alliance to sit with District 12. Ampert explained the purpose of the alliance—to counter the Careers—and proposed hunting them down for a change instead of letting them do the hunting. Wyatt Callow agreed that they could beat the odds if they got enough tributes to join their alliance. With the need to get most of the remaining unattached districts on their side, Ampert and Haymitch tried to persuade them. Haymitch secured District 6 and they decided to give their alliance a name. Ampert suggested a name that showed they weren't collaborators who trained for the Games, and they decided on the Newcomers.[4]
Before entering the arena, Beetee enlisted his son and Haymitch to help sabotage the Games by drowning the "brain" on Sub-A - the onsite control room.[5] At the next training session, Ampert does not discuss this with Haymitch as it was too dangerous to talk and instead focused on getting District 9 to join the Newcomers' alliance. This was essential as it was later revealed Beetee wanted to use their flower tokens to smuggle explosives into the arena. Haymitch persuaded them to join while Ampert finally got District 11 on their side.[6] They also used the black cord on Ampert's token to conceal the fuse.[7]
When the Games began, Ampert stayed with the Newcomers and settled on the mountain while Haymitch ran towards the forest. Some of them got sick from the poisonous environment, but were cured with an antidote of syrup in one of their packs. The next day, Ampert left the Newcomers armed with an ax after scavenging flower tokens from District 9 tributes and tried to find Haymitch. Although this was to secretly carry out Beetee's sabotage plan together, Ampert publicly claimed it was because the Newcomers' needed him. He gave Haymitch an update on the happenings on the mountain while wolfed down food.[8]
Haymitch pretended to give Ampert a tour of the forest, although he was secretly trying to show him the berms that he saw muttations returning to Sub-A through. Ampert slept while Haymitch gathered wood and pine needles to create a fire site near the beam.[8] Ampert awoke and they set a fire, ostensibly to cook dinner, and then lay out his own token concealing the fuse and he and Haymitch wear the flower tokens containing the explosives around their necks.[9]
They slept until after midnight when they were sure the Capitol were sleeping and few Gamemakers were watching. Ampert gave Haymitch the fuse and the explosive, they pried open the beam, Haymitch gave him a knife and left him on the ground while he climbed down to Sub-A.[9]

Death[]
Ampert and Haymitch successfully enacted Beetee's plan to bomb the arena's water tank. However, the Gamemakers retaliated by sending squirrel mutts programmed to attack only Ampert. The mutts devoured the boy, leaving only a small white skeleton behind. However, although the arena was damaged, it did not shut down the Games and it continued. In rage at Ampert's death, Haymitch dropped his spear and took Ampert's ax, which he used for the rest of the Games, and chopped down part of the arena.[9]

Physical description[]
Haymitch noted that Ampert was barely five feet tall. His voice hadn't been changed by puberty yet. Alongside the rest of the District 3 tributes, Ampert wore electric blue in the arena.[8]

Personality[]
Ampert was a very kind and smart boy, coming up with the idea of a huge alliance to possibly counter the careers. He was friendly to everyone but builds a specific bond with Haymitch. His father agreed that he was a "great kid".[4] 

Relationships[]
Family[]
Ampert is the son of victor Beetee Latier. At the time he was a tribute in the 50th Hunger Games, his mother was pregnant with his younger sibling.[10] Beetee loves his son very much but was caught in a plan to break an arena, being forced to mentor his son for the games.

Haymitch Abernathy[]
Ampert first met Haymitch during a training session for the 50th Hunger Games where he took a liking to the District 12 tribute for mocking President Snow on Louella McCoy's death. Ampert and Haymitch developed a friendship where the latter decided to join an alliance formed by Ampert against the Careers.[1] When Haymitch found out Ampert was Beetee's son and was reaped in order to punish his father for his rebellious activities, Haymitch promised Beetee he would look after Ampert as they worked to blow up the arena.
During the Games, Ampert and Haymitch teamed up to carry out their plan to destroy the arena's water tank. However, their attempt only partially damaged the arena and the Gamemakers retaliated by sending squirrel mutts programmed to attack only Ampert as punishment for the boy's rebelliousness. Haymitch tried to save Ampert, but was unable to get the mutts away from his friend. In rage and sadness over Ampert's death, Haymitch chopped down part of the arena in his grief and took Ampert's ax, which he used for the rest of the Games.[9]

Etymology[]
"Ampert" is derived from ampere, a measurement of electrical current.

Trivia[]
He is the only named tribute to be a child of a previous victor.
Ampert shared similarities to Rue as both were the youngest tributes from their districts and made an alliance with a tribute from District 12 as they reminded them of their younger siblings.
Gallery[]
Stills[]
Trailer Screenshots[]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ Post by the official Hunger Games account (June 20, 2025).

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 8

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 10

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 11

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 13

↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 17

↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 9.3 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 18

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 27




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White





