

Annie Thurman


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Annie Thurman



	
		Character
	
	District 9 female



	
		Birthday
	
	November 14, 1996



	
		Birthplace
	
	Nashville, Tennessee, U.S.A[1]



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games film



	
		Years active
	
	2010-present



Annie Thurman is an American actress who portrayed the District 9 female in The Hunger Games film.[2] She had originally auditioned for the role of Clove, but ultimately lost the role to Isabelle Fuhrman.[3]
She is one of the last actresses to be cast for a tribute who was only mentioned once and fell during the initial bloodbath. Her action during the bloodbath is completely absent in the films.

Career[]
After performing in a school play, Thurman decided that she wanted to pursue acting as a career. At age 13, she enrolled in classes and workshops, some of which were at the The Actors School in Franklin, Tennessee. It was through these workshops that she met her future manager and agent. They encouraged her to go out to Los Angeles to learn more about the business and "test the waters". At the age of 14, things started happening for Thurman when she got the role of Cora in the post-apocalyptic film, Falls the Shadow. Shortly thereafter, she was cast as the female tribute from District 9 in The Hunger Games. That became the springboard to launch her role in the supernatural thriller, Dark Skies, in 2013. Thurman starred alongside Keri Russell, Josh Hamilton, and Dakota Goyo, as Goyo's friend and confidant, Shelly Jessop. That same year in December, she made her television debut as lead, Sally Ryebeck, in Hallmark's presentation The Santa Switch. 
She also acted in national commercials such as Oscar Mayer, as Teresa Mayer and Little Debbie. After enjoying a month at home in Nashville for Christmas break 2013, she returned to L.A. for the 2014 Pilot Season. Thurman landed a lead role as Sophie in the TNT pilot, Proof, starring Jennifer Beals as Dr. Kathryn Russo, Matthew Modine as eccentric billionaire, Ivan Touring, and executive produced by Kyra Sedgwick. The pilot was soon ordered to series and came out in 2015. 
In her off time, Thurman enjoys spending time with her family and friends. She loves to play the ukulele and cello, and have Tennessee summer fun with friends while driving her Jeep. Thurman rides horses and is also an animal lover and advocate. She has two dogs, three cats and one overweight bunny.

External links[]
 Annie Thurman at the Internet Movie Database
 Annie Thurman on X
References[]


↑ Celebrity Column: Nashville girl, 15, in 'The Hunger Games'

↑ Brian Gallagher (05-06-2011). The Hunger Games Adds Imanol Yepes-Frias and Annie Thurman. Movie Web. Retirved on 05-07-2011.

↑ Annie Thurman Answers Fan Questions Via Twitter






