

Apollo Ring


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Also known as
	
	Pollo



	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Diana Ring (twin sister)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (book)
Unknown (film)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Aaron Finn Schultz





Apollo Ring, also known by the nickname "Pollo", was a student at the Academy and a mentor for the District 6 male tribute, Otto, during the 10th Hunger Games. He was killed in a bombing while taking his tribute on a tour of the arena.
He was one of the two Ring twins, the other being his sister Diana Ring. He and his sister wholly embraced their status as twins, sporting identical outfits and sunny personalities.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Apollo Ring play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Apollo Ring, a student from The Academy, mentored Otto, the male tribute from District 6. He belonged to the elite Ring family of the Capitol. His life ended tragically in a bombing.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Apollo Ring's twin sister?
						
				
				
					
						The twin sister of Apollo Ring is Diana Ring. Their names are derived from the Greco-Roman deities Apollo and Diana. In their childhood, a game named Ring-around-the-Rings was often played by the Ring twins and their peers.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was unique about Apollo Ring and his sister's appearance?
						
				
				
					
						Apollo Ring and his twin sister, Diana, were unique in their appearance due to their twin status. Their namesakes in Greek and Roman mythology, Apollo and Diana, were also twins. Apollo was associated with various domains including oracles, healing, archery, arts, sunlight, and protection of the young, while Diana was known as the goddess of the hunt.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
While in the zoo, Otto and his district partner, Ginnee, began a funny dance, and the Ring twins got some of the audience to clap along. This led to the environment becoming more festive and social.[1]
Before the start of the Games, the tributes and their mentors were taken on a tour of the Capitol Arena. During the tour, rebel bombs exploded, sending shrapnel that killed Apollo, as well as Diana and their assigned tributes. A double funeral was held the following day.[2]

Etymology[]
Apollo was the Greco-Roman god of oracles, healing, archery, music and arts, sunlight, knowledge, herds and flocks, and protection of the young. He was the twin brother of the Greek goddess Artemis, or her Roman counterpart, Diana.

Trivia[]
As 7-year-olds, the Ring twins and their classmates would play a game called Ring-around-the-Rings where their classmates attempted to corner them and trap them.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






