

Arachne Crane's brother

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	19-20



	
		Occupation
	
	Academy student (formerly)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Arachne Crane (younger sister)Seneca Crane (possible descendant)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Mentioned
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes





Arachne Crane's brother was the older brother of Arachne Crane,[1] and presumably the Crane family's heir.


	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What year did Arachne Crane's brother graduate from the Academy?
						
				
				
					
						The older sibling of Arachne Crane, presumed heir of the Crane family, graduated from the Academy during the 9th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Arachne Crane's brother's mentor in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						While the specific mentor of Arachne Crane's brother is not directly stated, it is known that he was an Academy graduate during the 9th Hunger Games. His sister, Arachne, was a mentor in the 10th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Arachne Crane die?
						
				
				
					
						Arachne Crane met her end at the hands of Brandy during the Hunger Games. Her demise was showcased in her funeral parade, where her body was suspended from a hook. The mentor death toll in these Games reached four, Arachne included. This occurrence exposed the vulnerability of the Capitol regime, resulting in the deletion of nearly all recordings of the 10th Hunger Games. Arachne's brother, the only sibling mentioned, is believed to have preserved the Crane legacy.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did Arachne Crane's brother attend her funeral?
						
				
				
					
						Yes, Arachne Crane's brother was present at her funeral. He was part of the mourning family that followed Arachne's white coffin in a horse-drawn chariot, an occurrence noted by Coriolanus Snow due to the family's visible discomfort.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
He graduated from the Academy in the year of the 9th Hunger Games, one year before his sister would have.[1] The following year, Arachne was chosen to mentor in the 10th Hunger Games,[2] but she was killed by her tribute Brandy.[3] Her brother presumably attended the funeral alongside their parents. In the procession, the bereaved family rode in a horse-drawn chariot behind Arachne's white coffin, and Coriolanus Snow noted that they "had the decency to look uncomfortable" about Brandy's body being displayed.[4]

Legacy[]
With the death of his sister and having no other siblings mentioned, Arachne's brother is presumably the one who kept the Crane name alive, eventually passing it onto Seneca Crane from The Hunger Games trilogy.[5]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 9

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 2







