

Arachne Crane


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	18



	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Unnamed older brotherSeneca Crane (unknown relation)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (killed by Brandy)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Lilly Cooper







"Always so loud. Always socking people."
—Description of Arachne[src]
Arachne Crane was a female resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. She was assigned the female tribute from District 10, Brandy.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death


2 Personality and traits
3 Relationships

3.1 Maximinius Ravinstill
3.2 Volumnia Gaul
3.3 Coriolanus Snow
3.4 Sejanus Plinth


4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What industry did Arachne Crane's family work in?
						
				
				
					
						The Crane family, including Arachne Crane, amassed their wealth through the transportation and travel industry, owning assets like hotels in District 10.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did the First Rebellion impact Arachne Crane's family business?
						
				
				
					
						Arachne Crane's family business suffered during the First Rebellion, but signs of recovery were evident, such as her ability to purchase fresh grapes. Despite not being very close, Coriolanus Snow was chosen to sing the Capitol anthem 'Gem of Panem' at her funeral due to their perceived friendship.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Arachne Crane's status in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						Arachne Crane, an inhabitant of the Capitol, attended the Academy. She was distinguished as one of the 24 highest-achieving seniors chosen to mentor in the 10th Hunger Games. Her elder brother, a former Academy student, was likely the Crane family's heir.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the Academy that Arachne Crane attended?
						
				
				
					
						Arachne Crane, a resident of the Capitol, attended the Academy where she was recognized as a top-performing senior. Her academic achievements led to her selection as a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Her family was part of the old guard of the wealthy from the Capitol. They worked in the travel industry, having developed luxury hotels in vacation destinations, though the industry took a hit during and after the Dark Days. However, Coriolanus Snow thought that it might be picking up based on Arachne's ability to afford fresh grapes.[1] She had an older brother who graduated from the Academy the year prior.[2]
During the first mentor-tribute meeting, Arachne's tribute, Brandy, told her about how she spent most of her time in District 10 butchering hogs. However, Arachne found it repulsive until she realized she could use her knowledge of District 10 to make up something more brilliant than the details of a slaughterhouse.[1]
During Crispus Demigloss' class, Arachne, Coriolanus, and Clemensia Dovecote were chosen by their peers to write a proposal about how sponsorship and betting could be implemented in the 10th Hunger Games. She died before being able to contribute to the proposal.[1]

Death[]
Arachne was killed by her own tribute, knifed in the throat after she taunted Brandy by reaching through her bars in the Capitol Zoo to offer a cheese sandwich, only to then withdraw it. Angered, Brandy used the knife that Crane had sliced the cheese for the sandwich with to accomplish the deed.[1] As Arachne's face drained of color, she turned towards the audience for help, but only Coriolanus and one of her other classmates, Festus Creed, went over in an attempt to help her. Arachne was lifted onto a stretcher by medics shortly after she died.[2]
After her death, a schoolwide assembly was held at the Academy, where Professor Satyria Click spoke of Arachne in glowing terms and the school counselor Hippocrata Lunt invited anyone with grief issues to visit her office. For Arachne's funeral, numerous cameras and Capitol TV reporters were positioned. Coriolanus had been asked to sing the anthem at the beginning, and President Ravinstill followed with a speech.[3]

Personality and traits[]
She was a boisterous individual and Coriolanus Snow felt that she had always been very loud and was always mocking people. She was cruel and taunted her tribute, which resulted in her death.[1] Snow found her funeral ridiculous and out of proportion for someone like her, given how many had died heroically in the Dark Days.[3]

Relationships[]
Maximinius Ravinstill[]

"Two days ago, Arachne Crane's young and precious life was ended, and so we mourn another victim of the criminal rebellion that yet besieges us. Her death was as valiant as any on the battlefield, her loss more profound as we claim to be at peace. But no peace will exist while this disease eats away at all that is good and noble in our country. Today we honor her sacrifice with a reminder that while evil exists, it does not prevail. And once again, we bear witness as our great Capitol brings justice to Panem."
—President Ravinstill's speech at Arachne's funeral.[src]
Arachne attended the Academy with President Ravinstill's great-nephew, Felix. It is unlikely that they knew each other personally, but President Ravinstill spoke about Arachne at her funeral.

Volumnia Gaul[]

"Arachne Crane, we, your fellow citizens of Panem, vow that your death will not be in vain. When one of ours is hit, we hit back twice as hard. The Hunger Games will go forward, with more energy and commitment than ever before, as we add your name to the long list of the innocent who died defending a righteous and just land. Your friends, family, and fellow citizens salute you and dedicate the Tenth Hunger Games to your memory."
—Dr. Gaul's speech at Arachne's funeral.[src]
Dr. Gaul helped prepare the mentors (including Arachne) for the 10th Hunger Games.

Coriolanus Snow[]

"She laid down her life taunting her tribute with a sandwich. Maybe her gravestone could read, 'Casualty of cheap laughs.'"
—Coriolanus' thoughts during Arachne's funeral.[src]
Arachne and Coriolanus were classmates and neighbors. It is said that "even from across the Corso, [Coriolanus] could hear [Arachne] bellowing at night."[1]
When Arachne was killed, Coriolanus was initially too stunned to help Arachne, but ran over when Lucy Gray Baird urged him to. People thought that she and Coriolanus were great friends and, as such, he was tasked with singing the Capitol anthem "Gem of Panem" at her funeral.[3] In fact, the two were not actually very close at all. They had grown up together, attending important events in each other's lives, as was natural for members of two families of money who lived close together, but did not really like each other.[2]

Sejanus Plinth[]

"No one here likes him, but they do love his money. You know what that's like, don't you, Arachne?"
—Sejanus in the film.
Arachne and Sejanus were classmates. 
In the film, Arachne teases Coriolanus about liking Sejanus. She then asks Sejanus to spill who won the Plinth Prize. Sejanus refuses, and implies that people only like Arachne for her wealth.

Etymology[]
Arachne was a mortal maiden and accomplished weaver from Greco-Roman mythology, who in arrogance declared herself more talented than the goddess Athena/Minerva, the patron of said profession. Convinced of her own superiority, she accepted a challenge proposed by the goddess, which she lost, and as punishment was turned into the first spider. In other versions, Arachne originally won, but Athena/Minerva was jealous and killed her, but then, regretting her actions, turned her into the first spider as a gift. The arrogance of Arachne Crane’s namesake is reflected in the character's personality.

Trivia[]
She knew how to balance a spoon on her nose (which along with her loudness was her only talent according to Snow).[3]
It is likely that she was a relative of Seneca Crane. She had an older brother who could have passed down the surname.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 9




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






