

Arlo Chance


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Rebel soldier (formerly)Coal miner



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Woodbine Chance † (descendant)Binnie Chance † (descendant)Clay Chance † (descendant)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Raphael Zari







"Run! Run, Lil! Ru- !"
—Arlo to Lil during his execution[src]
Arlo Chance was a coal miner from District 12 and a rebel soldier during the Dark Days. Ten years after the war, he was executed, inspiring Lucy Gray Baird to write "The Hanging Tree" song.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Film adaptation
1.2 Death
1.3 Legacy


2 Trivia
3 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Arlo Chance's occupation before he became a rebel soldier?
						
				
				
					
						Arlo Chance, before his time as a rebel soldier, was employed as a coal miner in District 12. His resilience was honed through years of laborious work in the mines. Post his soldiering stint, he sought to disrupt coal production in the district's mines, but his efforts were thwarted.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What event inspired Lucy Gray Baird to write 'The Hanging Tree' song?
						
				
				
					
						'The Hanging Tree' song, composed by Lucy Gray Baird, was inspired by the execution of Arlo Chance. Arlo was held responsible for a mine explosion that killed three people, leading to his execution at the real hanging tree. The song narrates this event from Arlo's viewpoint.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Arlo Chance's role during the First Rebellion?
						
				
				
					
						Arlo Chance, originating from District 12, was a rebel soldier in the First Rebellion. Post-war, he tried to disrupt coal production in his district's mines as a form of continued rebellion but was caught and publicly executed. His death inspired the creation of 'The Hanging Tree' song by Lucy Gray Baird.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the outcome of Arlo Chance's attempt to sabotage the coal mine?
						
				
				
					
						Arlo Chance, in a bid to spark a rebellion, tried to disrupt the district's coal mines. His attempt failed, causing the death of two District 12 bosses and a Peacekeeper. He was apprehended and executed publicly, his death inspiring 'The Hanging Tree' song.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Arlo Chance's actions impact District 12 after the First Rebellion?
						
				
				
					
						Arlo Chance, a resident of District 12, tried to restart a rebellion by sabotaging the district's coal mines. His actions caused an explosion that killed two district bosses and a Peacekeeper. Despite his efforts, the rebellion did not reignite, and he was captured and executed publicly. His execution inspired the creation of the song 'The Hanging Tree', and his actions led to the Capitol reasserting control over District 12.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]

"They're all malcontents, but this one's the ringleader. Name's Arlo something-or-other."
—A Peacekeeper major regarding Arlo Chance[src]
He was an ex-soldier and had also been toughened by many years of hard work in the coal mines of District 12.[1] Although the rebels lost the war, he was determined to try to keep things going. Ten years later, he tried to sabotage coal production at the mine with a bombing, but accidentally killed three people in the process. He failed in his goal and was arrested by Peacekeepers for murder.[2]

Film adaptation[]
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Arlo was said to have shot and killed two coal mine managers and a Peacekeeper. According to Commander Hoff, the murder weapon was later found and swabbed for DNA, which proved Arlo's guilt.[3]

Death[]
He was hung publicly at the hanging tree, a makeshift gallows that was used in place of the proper one that the Capitol kept promising to send. Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth, both newly recruited Peacekeepers, were made to attend the execution, as they had performed well during training drills. During the execution, a woman, Lil, appeared, shrieking his name. Horrified, he shouted for her to run. The trapdoor was then released and he dropped fifteen feet, killed instantly. In the wake of his hanging, the jabberjays in the forest took up his cry,[2] which was then transformed into music by the mockingjays.[4]

Legacy[]
Arlo's execution inspired Lucy Gray to write "The Hanging Tree".[5] The song survived in the memory of Katniss Everdeen, though its historical context had been lost by the time she learned it.[6] In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, Katniss sang it in a propaganda video, and district rebels took it up as a protest song.[7] 

Trivia[]
Arlo is heavily implied to be related to Woodbine Chance.
Arlo and Lil served as the inspiration for the "Hanging Tree" song.
It's possible that Arlo and Lil were lovers.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 23

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 9

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





