

Blight


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15-18 (at victory)34-42 (75th Hunger Games)



	
		Occupation
	
	VictorTribute (75th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 7



	
		Weapon
	
	Axe[1]



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Bobby Jordan







"Yeah, well, he wasn't much, but he was from home."
—Johanna Mason on Blight[src]
Blight was the male tribute from District 7 who participated in the 75th Hunger Games. He was also the victor of an unspecified Hunger Games, somewhere in the early-to-mid 50s.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Chariot rides
1.1.2 Training
1.1.3 Interviews
1.1.4 Cornucopia bloodbath
1.1.5 Death




2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the significance of Blight's green and brown bark-patterned outfit in Catching Fire?
						
				
				
					
						The green and brown bark-patterned outfit worn by Blight in Catching Fire is a long-standing tradition. For 40 years, the District 7 stylist has been dressing tributes in tree-themed costumes for the Tribute Parade.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Which Hunger Games did Blight win?
						
				
				
					
						Blight, a tribute from District 7, emerged victorious in an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games. His participation in the 75th Hunger Games is highlighted in 'Catching Fire'.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the tradition of District 7 in dressing their tributes?
						
				
				
					
						The tradition of District 7 involves dressing their tributes as trees for the Hunger Games, a practice that has been maintained for four decades. In the film versions, this tradition is depicted with tributes wearing paper headdresses and clothing, representing the district's focus on lumber and paper production.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did Blight attend the training for the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Katniss could not recall Blight ever showing up for the training for the 75th Hunger Games. However, he was present for the Tribute Parade and the interviews. In addition to this, he was the winner of a previous Hunger Games and represented District 7 in the 75th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Community
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
75th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Blight and Johanna Mason in the Tribute Parade. 		 	 
Chariot rides[]
In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, Blight wore a green and brown bark-patterned outfit during the Tribute Parade.[2] The District 7 stylist had been dressing District 7 tributes in tree costumes for the last 40 years.[3]

Training[]
Katniss Everdeen could not recall ever seeing Blight during training,[4] so he may have been one of several tributes who did not attend.[5]

Interviews[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Johanna, Blight, Woof, Cecelia, and the District 9 female during interviews. 		 	 
In the film, Blight wore a black, long-sleeved shirt underneath a sparkly peach buttoned vest, with matching peach pants.[2] After the actual interviews, Blight joined hands with the other twenty-three tributes in a display of rebellion against the Capitol.[6]

Cornucopia bloodbath[]
Blight and his district partner, Johanna Mason, survived the initial Cornucopia bloodbath alongside their allies, Beetee Latier and Wiress. Beetee ran in to retrieve his wire from the Cornucopia, taking a knife to the back, but he managed to keep hold of his bounty and the four of them got away.[4]

Death[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Blight's death portrait. 		 	 
The hot, humid arena made them all dehydrated, so when a lightning storm began at midnight, the four of them believed that the coming storm would let them fill up on rainwater. However, when it rained around 1-1:30am, it turned out to be thick, hot blood, temporarily blinding them. They staggered around trying to escape the downpour, and Blight accidentally ran into the force field shortly before 2am, stopping his heart. He placed 16th out of 24.[4]

Etymology[]
Blight's name comes from a type of sickness that affects plants such as trees. The word "blight" is also used more generally to refer to something that spoils or destroys other things.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Behind the scenes picture of Blight at the Cornucopia. 		 	 
Trivia[]
In a behind the scenes featurette, a cameraman asked Cashmere's actress Stephanie Leigh Schlund if she had killed anybody yet in the bloodbath. She replied, "I have. I killed Bobby," referring to Blight's actor Bobby Jordan. However, the footage of their fight was ultimately cut since Blight was meant to be killed by the force field.[1]
Blight is the last District 7 tribute to die in the Hunger Games.
Gallery[]
Blight's parade costumeInterview suitBlight during trainingBlight on an alternate version of the 75th Hunger Games Tribute poster, from Tim Palen's "Photographs from The Hunger Games" artbook.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire - Catching Fire's New Cast (behind the scenes featurette)

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 22

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





