

Bobbin


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12-18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 8



	
		Weapon
	
	KnifeMachete



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (killed by Coriolanus Snow)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Knox Gibson







"Snooty Juno Phipps admitted she'd been disappointed to get tiny Bobbin. Didn't a Phipps, a member of a founding family of the Capitol, deserve better than District 8? But he'd won her over when he told her five different ways he could kill someone with a sewing needle."
—Coriolanus Snow describing how Bobbin won over his mentor.[src]
Bobbin was the male tribute from District 8 reaped for the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Juno Phipps. During his interview with Phipps, he impressed the public by explaining five different ways to kill someone with a sewing needle. He died during the night of Day 1 and finished in 13th place of the 24 tributes. He was preceded in death by Dill, the female tribute from District 11, and followed in death by Sol, the female tribute from District 5. Bobbin was the first person Coriolanus Snow killed directly.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death

1.1.1 Film adaptation




2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 Gallery
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was Bobbin's mentor in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Bobbin was mentored by Juno Phipps. Despite initial disappointment, Phipps was won over by Bobbin's ingenuity, particularly his ability to describe numerous ways to use a sewing needle lethally. Bobbin's life was cut short on the first day of the Games by Coriolanus Snow, another mentor.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Bobbin die in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Bobbin, a tribute from District 8, was killed by Coriolanus Snow in self-defense. His mentor, Juno Phipps, initially disappointed, was later impressed by Bobbin's unique skill of describing various methods to kill using a sewing needle.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Bobbin's ranking in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Bobbin, the District 8 tribute, was eliminated on the first day by Coriolanus Snow, resulting in a 13th place finish among the 24 tributes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was the first person Coriolanus Snow killed in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Coriolanus Snow's first direct kill was a character named Bobbin, initiating his characteristic method of eliminating his adversaries.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Bobbin at the reaping. 		 	 
Bobbin grew up in District 8 and became his district's male tribute in the reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1] He and the other tributes were taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2]
During the interviews before the Games began, his mentor, Juno Phipps, admitted that she'd been disappointed to get a District 8 tribute. However, Bobbin impressed her by telling her multiple ways he could kill somebody just by using a sewing needle.[3]

Death[]
During the Games, Sejanus Plinth snuck into the arena to perform a traditional District 2 death ceremony on his assigned male tribute Marcus's dead body. Coriolanus Snow was sent into the arena to coax Sejanus out, but, as they exited, Bobbin leaped out from the shadows in which he was hiding and attacked them with a knife.[4] In defense, Coriolanus seized a board and beat Bobbin so violently that the surrounding area was covered in blood, dislodged one of the boy's eyes, and rendered his face so swollen and bruised it was unrecognizable, ending Bobbin's life.[5]
Snow only found out about Bobbin's death from Dr. Volumnia Gaul. Although guilt was Snow's immediate feeling after learning that he had killed Bobbin, it changed after Tigris reacted with horror at the thought of him being in the arena and commented "Poor Lucy Gray." For the first time, he felt glad in the realization he killed Bobbin and the effect it would have on his tribute's chances. From Bobbin's death, Snow started to fully accept and understand the lessons being taught by Dr. Gaul involving the perceived reasoning, reality, and need for the Hunger Games along with the conclusion that humanity is defined by who has, how to keep, garner support, the enforcement, and survival of control. Through Bobbin's attack on Plinth and Snow—even after recognizing the two as the only mentors to publicly show empathy to the well-being of the tributes, along with how there was nothing to gain by their deaths since they were not in direct competition with them—did Snow truly grasp the depth of the districts' hate of him and all the Capitol.[5]
He also discovered, through his own reaction to Bobbin's attack, what Dr. Gaul meant by her opinion on human's inherent animalistic nature: that no matter who you are, where you live, or how much money you have, one's response to real and perceived threats will always be violence, not self-sacrifice. Bobbin's death furthered Snow's realization that to protect his and the Capitol's earned entitlement, power, and control, as well as to save the districts from themselves, the war would never be over. But by limiting hope and creating realistic expectations, it could be contained indefinitely.
Since the events leading up to and following Bobbin's demise all occurred after all the mentors and attendants had left for the night and Lucretius Flickerman's play-by-play recessed, the view inside the arena was limited and any movement hard to decipher without explanation. The arena itself contained little to no light other than the natural moonlight and the Capitol's view was only a single wide angle lens. Darkening an already dimmed stream could be explained away by clouds, so this eased the Gamemaker's job of damage control and Bobbin's death was easily covered up.[4] Luckily, Lucky and the mentors were initially more confused on how Marcus' body was moved and less on Bobbin's grotesque body and death, other than his mentor Phipps. No explanation was given and his memoriam was quickly glossed over to instead celebrate the Games were officially half-way to crowning their winner, ignoring Phipps's objections and demands for answers.[5] Bobbin's body was eventually moved by Reaper, along with the other dead tributes and covered, in part, by a Panem flag[6] until the Games had its Victor and was then removed for the arena's cleaning and repair with the other 13 dead tributes who had died in the Games.

Film adaptation[]
When the gong rang, he ran towards the pile of weapons, but hid when he saw the bloodbath. At night, Bobbin saw Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth in the arena, then chased them to one of the exits. Seeing that Bobbin was holding a knife, Coriolanus grabbed a block of concrete and hit him until Bobbin had died. Bobbin placed 11th.[7]

Physical description[]
Coriolanus describes Bobbin as a boy "who looked about ten years old but had to be at least twelve."[2]
In the film adaptation, Bobbin has short blond hair. His right arm ends in a stump. He is wearing a green shirt, blue trousers with patches and a brown wool vest decorated with metal buttons.

Etymology[]
A bobbin is a type of spool used to hold thread or yarn.

Trivia[]
While not explicitly written with a limb difference in the novel, Bobbin is portrayed in the film adaptation by Knox Gibson, who is an amputee.
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Bobbin's profile 		 	 Sofia Sanchez, the actress for Wovey, posted profiles of Bobbin and Wovey from what appears to be a prop dossier used in the film.[8] Bobbin's profile lists his age as 14, his height as 5.7 feet (5 feet and 8.4 inches), his weight as 194 pounds, and his health status was scored a 5 out of 10. His special skills are his combativeness and hostility, while his weaknesses are that he is impatient and slow. His preferred defense is "knige [sic] fight", and it's noted that he is a loner.
The typo in Bobbin's profile, as well as possible inconsistencies between Wovey's profile and the film, cast doubt on their canonicity.
He is the only male tribute from District 8 not to have died in a bloodbath.
Gallery[]
Bobbin's face on the monitors.Concept art of Bobbin and Wovey's costumes.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 15

↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ https://www.reddit.com/r/Hungergames/comments/17zlup0/district_8_tributes/




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





