

Boggs


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Mid-forties[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	SoldierHead of Security of District 13



	
		Home
	
	District 13



	
		Weapon
	
	Gun



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Mockingjay - Part 1
Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Mahershala Ali







"But that’s not going to happen under my watch, Soldier Everdeen. I’m planning for you to have a long life. Because you've earned it."
—Boggs to Katniss Everdeen[src]
Boggs was President Coin's second-in-command. Boggs' rank was colonel and he was Head of Security of District 13. When Katniss Everdeen assumed the role of the Mockingjay, he became her protector.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Working with the Mockingjay
1.2 Death


2 Personality
3 Physical description
4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2

5.1.1 Promotional




6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Boggs' role in the Second Rebellion in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Second Rebellion of the Hunger Games, Boggs held the position of President Coin's second-in-command and Head of Security for District 13. His primary duty was to protect Katniss Everdeen, who had taken on the role of the Mockingjay, the rebellion's symbol. When Katniss attempted to escape after viewing Peeta Mellark's Capitol interview, Boggs tried to halt her, but Gale Hawthorne intervened.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did Boggs give the holo to Katniss?
						
				
				
					
						After being fatally injured by a land mine, Boggs handed over the Holo to Katniss Everdeen, bypassing the squad's second-in-command, Jackson. This move effectively made Katniss the new squad leader. Boggs' intention was for Katniss to carry on with the mission, which involved an assassination plot. To justify her new role, Katniss fabricated a special mission from President Coin to assassinate President Snow, a claim supported by Cressida, thereby defusing a potential conflict.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Boggs die in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Boggs' death resulted from stepping on a mislabeled pod, which triggered an explosion that severed his legs. Despite his critical condition, he managed to transfer the Holo to Katniss and caution her about potential treachery, possibly from President Coin's faction. Boggs eventually died due to severe blood loss.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the relationship between Finnick and Boggs in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Boggs and Finnick Odair didn't share a substantial relationship. Boggs, assigned to protect Katniss, crossed paths with Finnick, but their interaction was minimal and didn't develop into a significant relationship.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did Boggs warn Katniss in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Boggs warned Katniss due to his concerns about President Coin's ambition for power. He believed Coin saw Katniss as a threat to her power, particularly with a free election approaching post-war. Boggs also suspected Coin sent Peeta to eliminate Katniss, given his uncontrollable state. Before dying, Boggs advised Katniss against trusting Coin and her followers.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Working with the Mockingjay[]
In the beginning of Second Rebellion, Boggs served as President Coin's second-in-command. When Katniss fled the room after seeing Peeta Mellark's interview in the Capitol, Boggs tried to stop her. However, Gale Hawthorne got in his way and was caught in the nose by Boggs' elbow.[2] During a meeting Haymitch Abernathy had organized, Boggs was one of the first to speak up about a moment when Katniss had moved him.
Boggs was assigned to guard Katniss while she filmed propos, and they planned to go to District 8 for their first shoot. After their run-in with Finnick Odair in his underwear shortly before leaving, Katniss decided that she liked Boggs.[1]
When they arrived at District 8, they went to one of the hospitals and decided to comfort some of the patients. Boggs kept a close eye on Katniss and made sure nothing happened to her. When the Capitol attacked the hospital, Boggs tried to get Katniss to safety, but she and Gale climbed up to fight, and Gale broke Boggs' nose with his boot.[3]
When the attack was over and Katniss made a brief speech, Boggs carried Katniss back to the hovercraft, and they returned to District 13 to receive medical treatment. The group met in the command room and discussed the complete propo. After they finished, they decided to allow Katniss go back in combat and shoot more propos when she had fully recovered. Boggs spoke with the head of the rebellion to discuss more topics and objectives they had to deal with.[4]
Boggs assisted the head of the rebellion in evacuating the entire district to safe bunkers after Peeta warned them of the bombing on District 13 by the Capitol.[5] Boggs, Katniss, Gale and the others resurfaced to the heavily damaged remains to shoot more propagandas, but Katniss and Finnick broke down after being unable to take it. Boggs and President Coin formed a rescue team that he would lead to save Peeta, Johanna Mason, Enobaria, and Annie Cresta from the Capitol.[6] Later, Boggs knocked Peeta out after he tried to strangle Katniss upon his return.[7]
He went with Katniss and Gale to District 2, where they all met Lyme. The group argued over the idea of bombing the Nut while it was filled with people, and Boggs gave them the choice of blowing them up or giving them a chance of escape. He also updated them of Peeta's condition after they retreated to the Justice Building.[8]
Boggs was the leader of Squad 451, the sharpshooter's squad, and went with them to the Capitol. The group trained and filmed for the propaganda. When Leeg 2 was killed by a pod, Peeta was sent as a replacement.[9] When Katniss Everdeen expressed her concerns, Boggs informed her that President Coin had always seen her as a thorn in her side and a threat to her power and agenda, although she was willing to tolerate it as she needed Katniss to rally the districts to rebel against the Capitol. With victory being all but assured for the rebels, Coin now saw Katniss as a threat, as she would hold considerable influence in choosing the new leader of Panem after the war. [10]

Death[]

"Don't trust them. Don't go back. Kill Peeta.  Do what you came to do."
—Boggs' last words[src] 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Boggs' corpse in a street 		 	 
As the Star Squad cleared a street of pods, Boggs accidentally stepped back onto a tile and had his legs blown off by a mine pod.[10] Within a building, as they sheltered from the effects of yet another pod, Boggs transferred the Holo over to Katniss' control. He also warned her not to trust them, and encouraged her to continue on her mission to assassinate President Snow. Although Katniss never found out who he was referring to in regards to not trusting "them", it was most likely President Coin and her supporters. Boggs died from blood loss, and his corpse was left behind when the Star Squad moves on. The Peacekeepers found his body, and before realizing what had really happened, they presumed that the others were dead as well.[11]

Personality[]
Despite his status as a high-ranking member of the government of District 13 and being a close associate of President Alma Coin, Boggs was a respectable individual who genuinely believed in the cause of freedom and disapproved of Coin's power-hungry ambitions. He had a huge respect for Katniss Everdeen, shown in his willingness to lay down his life to protect her. He also warned her about the fact that Coin had never liked her and viewed her as a thorn in her side, and by the end of the war, she would be seen as a threat to Coin's lust for power. Just before succumbing to his injuries, Boggs warned Katniss not to trust "them", most likely referring to President Coin and her allies. He allowed Katniss to take control of the Holo moments before his death, showing his absolute trust in her.[11]

Physical description[]
In the novel, he was in his mid-forties, with close-cropped gray hair and blue eyes. He was also noted as having incredible posture.[1]
However, in the film, he was bald with brown eyes.[12][13]

Trivia[]
Boggs had a young son that lived in District 13.[1]
Gallery[]
The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2[]
Promotional[]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Mockingjay, Chapter 6

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 2

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 7

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 8

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 10

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 11

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 13

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 16

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 18

↑ 10.0 10.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 19

↑ 11.0 11.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 20

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2






