Numerous bombings have occurred within Panem throughout its history.

Contents

1 Dark Days

1.1 Rebel air raids
1.2 Bombing of Rebel Forces in the Mountains
1.3 First Bombing of District 13


2 The Hunger Games period

2.1 Bombing of the Capitol Arena

2.1.1 Known casualties

2.1.1.1 Deaths
2.1.1.2 Injuries




2.2 Bombing of the District 12 mines
2.3 Bombing of the 50th Hunger Games arena
2.4 Uprising of District 8

2.4.1 Known deaths




3 Second Rebellion

3.1 Bombing of District 12 (Second Rebellion)

3.1.1 Known deaths


3.2 Bombing of District 8 (Second Rebellion)

3.2.1 Known deaths


3.3 Second Bombing of District 13
3.4 Bombing of the Nut
3.5 City Circle bombing

3.5.1 Known casualties

3.5.1.1 Deaths
3.5.1.2 Injuries






4 References



Dark Days[]
Main article: Dark Days
Rebel air raids[]
A few months into the war, the first major rebel air raid on the Capitol immobilized the city for several days.[1] The Capitol's surveillance system relied on electricity, but rebel interference in District 5 caused blackouts that made air raid sirens unreliable, so citizens were often caught off guard and forced to shelter in place.[2]

Bombing of Rebel Forces in the Mountains[]
For much of the war, the rebel forces, backed up by District 13 and its military arsenal, decidedly had the upper hand, and were winning. In the final two years of the conflict, they had completely cut off the Capitol from outside support, causing drastic food shortages in the city and a massive decline in living standards. In an attempt to break the siege, the rebels attempted an invasion of the Capitol by scaling the mountains that surrounded the city. However, such a task proved to be extremely difficult and costly, as Capitol aircraft were able to locate them easily and kill off mass numbers of rebel soldiers, forcing them to retreat.
The massive losses in both equipment and manpower for the rebels presumably had a devastating effect, and was likely the catalyst for the war turning in favor of the Capitol. 

First Bombing of District 13[]
Near the end of the Dark Days, District 13 trained their nuclear weapons on the Capitol and forced a stalemate under the threat of mutually assured destruction. The district negotiated an agreement with the Capitol, promising to withdraw from the war in exchange for political independence. Following this agreement, the entire population of the district moved underground, while the Capitol bombed the surface, creating the impression that the district had been destroyed.[3] District 13 was then used as a cautionary tale to the other districts.[4]  

The Hunger Games period[]
Bombing of the Capitol Arena[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Rubble raining down on Capitol students and tributes 		 	 
On Saturday, July 9th, the Capitol Arena suffered a major bombing prior to the 10th Hunger Games. All of the tributes for the Games were present, as well as their mentors, who were the 24 top-performing students from the Academy, as well as a number of Academy staff and Peacekeepers. The bombing horrified those from the Capitol in particular, as it brought back traumatic memories of the frequent bombings which happened during the Dark Days.[2]
Nobody was sure exactly who was responsible for the bombing or even the exact timeline. Due to its dilapidated condition, the Capitol Arena was not considered a high security area, so anyone could have sneaked in at any time since the 9th Hunger Games and planted the bombs without anyone noticing. The first explosion was near the main gate, but there was later a secondary explosion in the stands. During the bombing, Coriolanus Snow was trapped and on fire when Lucy Gray Baird saved him. Lysistrata Vickers was also helped by her tribute, Jessup Diggs, who threw himself on top of her to protect her from the blast.[2]

Known casualties[]
Deaths[]
Apollo Ring
Diana Ring
Otto - District 6 - killed by shrapnel
Ginnee - District 6 - killed by shrapnel
Panlo - District 9 - succumbed to injuries after being denied adequate medical care
Sheaf - District 9 - succumbed to injuries
Gaius Breen - lost both his legs,[2] succumbed to injuries twelve days later[5]
In addition to deaths directly caused by the bombing, the tributes from Districts 1 and 2 attempted to escape amid the chaos. Facet and Velvereen  were shot dead by Peacekeepers, and Sabyn fell to her death. Marcus successfully escaped,[2] but he was later recaptured, brutalized,[6] and then mercy-killed by Lamina in the arena nine days after the bombing.[7] In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Felix Ravinstill died in place of Gaius Breen.[8]

Injuries[]
"Almost everyone" present had needed medical attention in the aftermath of the bombing, the degree of which varied from person to person. Tributes were only seen to by a veterinarian at the Capitol Zoo where they were being held.[2]

Androcles Anderson - hospitalized in critical condition, but survived
Coriolanus Snow - hospitalized with burns and a "fairly mild" concussion
Lucy Gray Baird - burnt hands, smoke inhalation
Reaper Ash - was later seen with a bloody bandage wrapped around his head[2]

Bombing of the District 12 mines[]
Arlo Chance set off an explosion in the coal mines of District 12, apparently in an attempt to sabotage production and possibly get the rebellion going again. His attempt was not successful and he ended up killing three men: two District 12 bosses and a Peacekeeper. He was hung for his crime at the hanging tree,[9] serving as the basis for "The Hanging Tree" song.[10]


Bombing of the 50th Hunger Games arena[]
During the 50th Hunger Games, a group of rebels and rebel sympathizers plotted to destroy the arena's "brain" and disrupt the Games. Key members of the plot were victors Beetee Latier, Mags Flanagan, and Wiress, while District 12 tribute Haymitch Abernathy and Beetee's son Ampert were to carry out the plan using sunflower bombs disguised as the Tribute tokens of District 9 tributes who were not in on the plan. Beetee had help from rebel sympathizers within the Capitol with smuggling the bomb components into the arena, most likely Gamemakers and Peacekeepers.[11][12][13] Plutarch Heavensbee also claimed to also be a part of the rebellion and gave Haymitch valuable advice on what to do in the arena.[14]
Haymitch and Ampert succeeded in blowing up the arena's water tank and drowning the brain, causing the arena to malfunction and damaging it. However, the plan failed to stop the Games and the Gamemakers had Ampert killed by mutts in retaliation.[15] After winning the Games, Haymitch managed to throw a second bomb at the arena's generator with the reaction from the Gamemakers suggesting that he was successful in destroying it.[16]
Afterwards, Snow had Mags and Wiress tortured for information on everyone who was involved in the rebel plot,[13] although he spared Beetee's life as he was too valuable to kill.[17] While Snow chose not to kill Haymitch, he had Haymitch's family killed and poisoned Haymitch's girlfriend as punishment,[18] making it clear that he would never be allowed to love anyone again without them being killed. Undeterred by the failure, Plutarch told Haymitch that he had succeeded in shaking up the Capitol both literally and figuratively and that they needed to find someone like Haymitch but who was luckier or better with timing and preferably had an army at their back. Plutarch discussed finding or building that army, but Haymitch wanted nothing more to do with the rebellion after the losses that he had suffered.[17]


Uprising of District 8[]
In District 8, rebels used their stop on the Victory Tour as a rehearsal, and they used Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark's televised engagement in the Capitol as an excuse to be on the streets after dark. At eight o'clock, groups of rebels donned masks and targeted centers of power such as the Justice Building, the Peacekeepers' Headquarters, and the Communication Center in the square. Other targets included the railroad, granary, power plant, and armory. Peacekeepers were overwhelmed, their weapons appropriated by rebels, but reinforcements arrived by the thousands. The heightened Peacekeeper response and suppressive bombing brought an end to the uprising within forty-eight hours.[19]
After a week of martial law, the district resumed regular business. However, a Capitol bomb destroyed the primary textile factory where rebels had started planning the uprising. Bonnie and Twill's families were killed, but the two of them were presumed dead, allowing them to escape the district.[19]

Known deaths[]
Twill's husband
Bonnie's family
Factory workers
Peacekeepers
Second Rebellion[]
Bombing of District 12 (Second Rebellion)[]
As a result of Katniss Everdeen's actions at the end of the 75th Hunger Games, the Capitol's air force launched a massive retaliatory bombing raid on District 12. The Peacekeeper forces in the district withdrew, and the power to the citizens' homes was cut. The entire district was completely silent for fifteen minutes until the bombers arrived. At this time, the bombers dropped their incendiary payloads indiscriminately, razing most of 12 to the ground. The only area spared from the bombs was the Victor's Village.[20]
Gale Hawthorne herded refugees to the Meadow, and they worked together to tear down a portion of the fence and escape into the woods. Gale then led the survivors to a lake several hours from the district on foot. The bombing was over by dawn. Once they settled at the lake, the refugees tended to their wounded, hunting and fishing to sustain themselves for three days. Then they were discovered and evacuated to District 13. Of District 12's original population of approximately 8,000, only about 800 survived the raid. Fewer than a dozen of the district's merchant class survived.[20] In the films, the total was 915 survivors out of 10,000.[21]

Known deaths[]
Most of District 12's merchants
Mr. Mellark, Mrs. Mellark, first Mellark son, and second Mellark son[20]
Parents of Delly Cartwright[22]
Madge Undersee, Mayor Undersee, Mrs. Undersee, and "the two people who worked for them"[23]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss in District 8 in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 		 	 
Bombing of District 8 (Second Rebellion)[]

"I want to tell the rebels that I am alive. That I'm right here in District Eight, where the Capitol has just bombed a hospital full of unarmed men, women, and children. There will be no survivors. I want to tell people that if you think for second that the Capitol will treat us fairly if there's a cease-fire, you're deluding yourself. Because you know who they are and what they do. This is what they do! And we must fight back! President Snow says he's sending us a message? Well, I have one for him. You can torture us and bomb us and burn our districts to the ground, but do you see that? Fire is catching! And if we burn, you burn with us!"
—Katniss Everdeen[src]
About a month into the war, District 8 was heavily bombed one morning, and Katniss, Gale, Boggs, Cressida, and other District 13 citizens and camera crews were sent to film a propo. Katniss met injured rebel soldiers and civilians in the field hospital, many of whom were excited to see her. However, after exiting, a second wave of Capitol bombers came in to kill the patients and medics inside. Katniss and Gale took down the hovercraft with explosive arrows, using the same technique they used to hunt geese. Then Katniss filmed a stirring propo in front of the burning wreckage.[24]

Known deaths[]
Eddy and Eddy's sister
Numerous medics, soldiers, and civilians

Second Bombing of District 13[]
During a live broadcast from the Capitol, Peeta Mellark issued a warning of an imminent strike on District 13.[25] Despite dissent from higher-up rebels, President Alma Coin issued an air raid alarm. Katniss Everdeen, as the rebels' propaganda figurehead, was ordered to remain calm to provide a role model for the citizens of District 13. Bunker missiles, designed to penetrate deep into the earth before detonating,[26] were launched at the district over the course of three days. Peeta's warning came ten minutes before District 13's own systems would have detected the oncoming assault, at which point everyone in District 13 was already evacuated into a bunker deep underground. Anyone on the first ten levels of the complex would have been killed, but due to the timely warning, no lives were lost.[27]
In Mockingjay - Part 1, Capitol bombers damaged an aquifer in the northwest quadrant, causing District 13 to lose a transport corridor. A surface-to-air launcher in section 3 took a direct hit because Coin's order to fire had revealed its location. Another twelve bombers approached section 3. In order to secure their remaining assets, Coin ordered that they hold their fire. The next hit to section 3 hit bedrock, sending debris into the ventilation shaft, so Coin ordered the concealment of 13's remaining anti-aircraft guns, and the sealing of all launching pads and ventilation corridors. She also had oxygen reduced to 14% to conserve it for the duration of the assault. Peeta's warning gave them eight extra minutes to evacuate civilians.[21]


Bombing of the Nut[]
Due to the better living conditions experienced under the Capitol's rule, there was mixed support for the uprising in District 2, and for several weeks, the Capitol and the rebels fought, with no victory in sight. The biggest hurdle for the rebels' was the Nut, the command center for the Capitol's military. Several attempts to capture the Nut were unsuccessful, leading to only more casualties among the rebels.
Gale Hawthorne and Beetee Latier put forth the idea of bombing seismic weaknesses in the mountains with hovercrafts, triggering avalanches which would bury the military base. This plan proved to be a success, leading to the destruction of the Nut and the surrender of loyalist forces in District 2.[28]  
The bombing of the Nut disabled the Capitol's war effort, decimating their air fleet and killing large numbers of Peacekeepers. This was the turning point where the war turned decisively in favor of the rebellion.    


City Circle bombing[]
During the final weeks of the invasion of the Capitol, the rebel forces marked four pathways which led to the City Circle. As rebel forces advanced, President Coriolanus Snow surrounded the presidential mansion with the Capitol's refugee children as a last-ditch defense. A hovercraft with a Capitol insignia dropped silver parachutes into the crowd, reminiscent of sponsor gifts delivered to tributes in the Hunger Games. However, rather than aid parcels, these were actually twice-detonating bombs. After the first explosion, rebel medics and Peacekeepers united to assist the wounded, and a second explosion killed the aid workers in a double tap strike.[29] This strategy was devised by Gale Hawthorne and Beetee Latier.[22]  
This event turned public opinion against the Capitol, and the country was seized for the rebels, ending the war. It was later discovered that District 13's President Alma Coin ordered this bombing to shatter what little remaining loyalty anyone had for President Snow.[30]  

Known casualties[]
Deaths[]
Capitol children, Peacekeepers, and District 13 medics
Primrose Everdeen
Injuries[]
Capitol children, Peacekeepers, and District 13 medics (presumed)
Katniss Everdeen - hospitalized with burns
Peeta Mellark - hospitalized with burns
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 5

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 2

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 1

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 11

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 13

↑ 13.0 13.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 14

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 18

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 24

↑ 17.0 17.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 27

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 26

↑ 19.0 19.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 10

↑ 20.0 20.1 20.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 1

↑ 21.0 21.1 The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1

↑ 22.0 22.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 13

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 27

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 7

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 9

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 10

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 11

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 15

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 24

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 25






