

Bonnie

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Mid teens



	
		Occupation
	
	StudentFactory worker



	
		Home
	
	District 8



	
		Fate
	
	Unknown (presumed deceased)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Mockingjay





Bonnie was a girl from District 8. Along with Twill, she ran away from her district after the uprising in search of District 13. During their journey, the two of them were found in the woods outside District 12 by Katniss Everdeen.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical appearance
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Bonnie's occupation in District 8 before she ran away?
						
				
				
					
						In District 8, Bonnie balanced her time between being a student and a factory worker. Her education was overseen by Twill. Post school, she dedicated four hours at a factory's loading dock, involved in the production of Peacekeeper uniforms. She played a crucial role in securing two uniforms, intended as escape gear for Twill and her husband.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who did Bonnie encounter in the woods outside District 12?
						
				
				
					
						Bonnie, accompanied by Twill, met Katniss Everdeen in the woods outside District 12. They had to stop due to Bonnie's twisted ankle. Katniss, who was out hunting, gave them food, taught them to make tea, and instructed them on using a gun for hunting. Bonnie and Twill shared their plans to head to District 13, as they believed it housed other rebellion supporters.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Bonnie's teacher in District 8?
						
				
				
					
						Bonnie, a resident of District 8, was instructed by Twill. Post-school, she was employed at a factory manufacturing Peacekeeper uniforms. She clandestinely obtained two uniforms for Twill and her spouse, intended for their breakout during the District 8 rebellion.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did Bonnie and Twill run away from their district?
						
				
				
					
						Bonnie and Twill fled from District Eight following an uprising. They wore Peacekeeper uniforms, which their district produced. They planned to escape to District 13, convinced of its existence due to the Capitol's reuse of old footage, and their belief that its inhabitants lived underground.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
In District 8, Bonnie attended school and was taught by Twill. Right after school, she worked a 4-hour shift on the loading dock at a factory where they made Peacekeeper uniforms. She spent months securing two uniforms that were intended for Twill and her husband to escape in when it was time.
Once the uprising in District 8 began, the district appeared to be under rebel control, until the Capitol deployed Peacekeepers "by the thousands" to take back the district. The rebels were beaten down and defeated. As punishment, as well as to regain order in the district, the Capitol placed a full lockdown state on District 8 for approximately one week, with no food or coal. Finally, when they were allowed to go back to work, Bonnie and Twill were late getting from the school to the factory after being unable to cross a bombed street. The factory was bombed before they arrived, killing Twill's husband and Bonnie's entire family, but leaving the two of them alive. 
Bonnie and Twill disguised themselves in the Peacekeeper's uniforms, Bonnie taking the one meant for Twill's husband, and they boarded a boxcar headed to District 6. After fleeing the train, they traveled on foot to the woods surrounding District 12. However, Bonnie twisted her ankle there, which made them stop and forced her to use a branch as a crutch.
There, they met Katniss Everdeen. The two of them informed Katniss that they intended to go to District 13, because they believed there were others there who supported the rebellion. While in the cement shack, Katniss offered Bonnie a cheese bun, and she replied, "Is this all for me?" This reminded Katniss of Rue in the arena, when they were eating groosling drumsticks. As they made tea, Bonnie and Twill informed Katniss about their story and were taught survival skills.[1]
In Mockingjay, Bonnie and Twill did not make it to District 13, so their fates are unknown, but Katniss assumed that they had died.[2]

Physical appearance[]
Bonnie looked about Katniss's age in Catching Fire. She had a strawberry birthmark over one of her chocolate brown eyes and had very pale skin. Bonnie had a slight frame and was seen wearing an ill-fitting Peacekeeper's uniform several sizes too large.[1]

Trivia[]
Bonnie and Twill do not appear in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire film.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 10

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 2






