

Brandy


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 10



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (shot by Peacekeepers)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Luna Kuse







"Coriolanus glanced over in time to see the District 10 girl retrieve the cheese sandwich and take a furious bite before the bullets pierced her body, slamming her into the bars."
—Coriolanus Snow describing Brandy's death.[src]
Brandy was the female tribute from District 10 who was reaped to participate in the 10th Hunger Games. She had spent her life butchering hogs. Her mentor was Arachne Crane.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death


2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Did Brandy survive the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Brandy, a tribute from District 10 in the 10th Hunger Games, was killed by Peacekeepers after she slit the throat of her mentor, Arachne Crane, prior to the start of the games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Brandy's profession before she was reaped for the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Prior to her selection for the 10th Hunger Games, Brandy's occupation was hog butchering in District 10, an area recognized for its livestock production. She was the female tribute chosen for her district during the reaping.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Brandy's mentor in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Brandy was mentored by Arachne Crane, an elite senior from the Academy. Crane hailed from an affluent Capitol family with a background in the travel sector.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the main industry of District 10 where Brandy grew up?
						
				
				
					
						District 10, where Brandy was raised, primarily operates slaughterhouses, processing hogs and cattle. This district also preserves its cattle herds' genetic diversity through the implantation of long-frozen cow embryos.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How was Brandy transported to the Capitol for the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						For the Hunger Games, Brandy was moved to the Capitol in a grimy cattle car. On reaching, she was placed in the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo. Additionally, she and the remaining tributes were restrained using a crane attached to a truck.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Brandy at the reaping. 		 	 
Brandy grew up in District 10, spending most of her time butchering hogs, as the district's main industry is livestock. She became her district's female tribute in the reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1]
Along with the other tributes, Brandy was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2] During the first mentor-tribute meeting, Brandy told her mentor, Arachne Crane, of her life in District 10. Arachne was disgusted at first, though she later realized she could come up with something using her knowledge of the district from previous visits there.[2]

Death[]
Brandy died two days after the reaping, on July 6th. Arachne brought the starved Brandy a sandwich in the zoo, but instead of handing it over, she lectured her and taunted the tribute for the spectating Capitol citizens. However, Brandy grabbed the handle of Arachne's own knife and leaned forward to slit Arachne's throat.[3] 
After the mentor dropped the sandwich and Coriolanus Snow arrived in a futile attempt to help Arachne, Brandy retrieved the sandwich and took a furious bite before being gunned down by Peacekeepers. Brandy was the first of the tributes to die, before the Hunger Games had even begun. Sejanus Plinth was seen sprinkling breadcrumbs over her body, as was tradition in District 2, before being pulled away by a Peacekeeper.[1]
During Arachne's funeral, Brandy's bullet-ridden body was hoisted high in the air by a crane affixed to a truck, where the remaining tributes were shackled.[4]

Etymology[]
Brandy's name comes from the term branding, the method of marking livestock with a seal to identify their ownership.

Trivia[]
Brandy is the first tribute to die on-screen, though not due to the Hunger Games.
Because of this, in the film, her face on the screen is never seen without the death logo over it, even in behind-the-scenes photos, where the faces of other tributes killed before the start of the games can be seen.
Brandy could have been one of the “stronger” tributes during the 10th Hunger Games like her district partner, Tanner. Given her background in District 10, Brandy would have also had some knowledge and experience using tools as weapons.
Gallery[]
Brandy's face on the monitors.Concept art of Tanner and Brandy's costumes.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 9




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





