

Brutus


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	At least 18 (at victory)At least 40, 40-49 (75th Hunger Games) [1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor (late 40s)Career Tribute (75th Hunger Games)[1]



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 2



	
		Weapon
	
	Spear[2]



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Bruno Gunn







"Brutus, a volunteer from District 2, who must be at least forty and apparently can't wait to get back in the arena. "
—Katniss Everdeen watching Brutus' reaping[src]
Brutus was the male tribute from District 2 for the 75th Hunger Games[1], and the victor of an unknown past Games, presumably in the mid to late 40s. He was also a Career Tribute.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Training
1.1.2 During the Games




2 Victims
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What district did Brutus represent in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games, Brutus represented District 2. He was a victor from a previous edition of the Games and also held the title of a Career Tribute. His participation in the 75th Hunger Games ended when he was killed by Peeta.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Brutus's relationship with Peeta during the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Brutus and Peeta trained together and Brutus showed interest in an alliance. However, Katniss and Peeta chose to compete without allies. The relationship changed drastically during the Quarter Quell Games. Brutus killed Chaff, which led Peeta to retaliate and kill Brutus.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did Brutus volunteer for the third Quarter Quell and why?
						
				
				
					
						Brutus volunteered for the third Quarter Quell during the 75th Hunger Games. His decision was driven by his anticipation to compete again in the arena. The tributes for this event were selected from the pool of previous victors, as decreed by President Coriolanus Snow. Despite this, Brutus willingly stepped forward to participate.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Brutus's weapon of choice in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Brutus, a character from the Hunger Games, favored the spear as his weapon. He notably used a spear in the 75th Hunger Games, targeting Peeta. His training involved spears that resembled the ancient Roman pilum. Brutus also obtained a spear during the initial bloodbath, likely using it to eliminate other tributes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did Brutus express any interest in Katniss's skill with a bow and arrow?
						
				
				
					
						Indeed, Brutus showed interest in Katniss's archery skills. He witnessed her prowess during the 75th Hunger Games training and subsequently suggested an alliance to Haymitch, which Katniss refused.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
75th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Brutus and Enobaria are reaped for the 75th Hunger Games. 		 	 
When the time came for the third Quarter Quell, Brutus volunteered and apparently indicated he couldn't wait to get back into the arena.[1]

Training[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Brutus throwing spears in the Training Center. 		 	 
During training, Brutus and Peeta got on each other's good side. Along with Chaff, they practiced at the spear-throwing station. When Brutus saw Katniss's skill with a bow and arrow, Brutus expressed his interest in an alliance to Haymitch.[2] Katniss turned down his offer, and she and Peeta told Haymitch that they should go into the arena without any allies. Brutus received a fairly high score at the end of the training, though the exact number was not specified.[3]
During the interviews with each of the tributes, Brutus did not try to express any anger or feelings of betrayal, but he did reluctantly join hands with the other victors as a chain symbolizing their strength. He wore a silver chest plate, a black pair of shorts, and black boots.[4][5]

During the Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Brutus gives chase to Katniss. 		 	 
At the Cornucopia, his pedestal was between the District 5 male and Katniss Everdeen. When the gong sounded, he jumped to his spoke and swam to the Cornucopia. Inside the arena, Brutus, Enobaria, Cashmere and Gloss approached the Cornucopia, where he showed a unique way of dodging Katniss' arrows with his belt. However, he, along with the other Careers, were driven off by Katniss and Finnick Odair, who got there before the Careers. While Katniss and Finnick left with Mags and Peeta, Brutus and the other Careers stayed and helped massacre the competition.[6] In the film, he killed the District 9 female.[7] He was able to secure a spear during the bloodbath, which he likely used to kill his victims. 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Brutus's ID 		 	 Together, Brutus, Enobaria, Cashmere and Gloss followed the rebel alliance's tributes in the arena (those left being Wiress, Beetee, Mags, Finnick, the female morphling, Johanna, Blight, Chaff, Katniss, and Peeta). Over time, the alliance began to shrink with the deaths of Mags[8], the female morphling[9], and Blight, and the remaining members (minus Chaff who was off on his own) traveled back to the Cornucopia to retrieve any weapons they needed that had been left behind. In the film, he was nearly killed by Finnick, but saved after Enobaria threw a knife at Finnick's arm.[5] Gloss killed Wiress and he and Cashmere died shortly after, forcing Brutus and Enobaria to retreat from the Cornucopia.[10]
Back in the jungle, the alliance soon learned that, with the deaths of the District 10 male and the District 5 female, the Games were now down to them, Chaff, Enobaria, and Brutus. Beetee set up a plan to electrocute the water and cut off Brutus and Enobaria's resources.[11] He sent Katniss and Johanna to run the line across the jungle, pursued by Brutus and Enobaria.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Brutus and Enobaria track Katniss and Johanna. 		 	 
Johanna stopped and cut out Katniss's tracker to make it appear like she was dead, then led Brutus and Enobaria away from her. In the chaos that followed, Enobaria stabbed Beetee again but didn't manage to kill him before Finnick chased her away.[12] Brutus ran into Peeta, who had recently met up with Chaff. In the battle that followed, Chaff was killed by Brutus. In a fit of rage, Peeta killed Brutus seconds later.[13]
Brutus placed 7th and was the last tribute to die. Shortly after his death, Katniss destroyed the arena and ended the Games, leaving six surviving tributes[12].

Victims[]
As a victor and Career Tribute from District 2, he presumably managed to kill many tributes in his original Hunger Games. In the 75th Hunger Games, he killed the District 9 female in the bloodbath.[7] Toward the end of the Games, he killed Chaff, which led to his death[13].

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Brutus's chest piece from the Tribute Parade. 		 	 
Etymology[]
Brutus' name is another reference to Ancient Rome as several Romans in history went by this name, most famously Julius Caesar's assassin, Marcus Junius Brutus the Younger, who often went by the name Brutus alone.
Trivia[]
Brutus was also the last tribute to die in all the Hunger Games, and therefore the last District 2 tribute to die.
Brutus and Enobaria most likely mentored Clove and Cato, which could explain their similar qualities.
In the book, Katniss talks about the District 2 tributes, saying "Cato. Clove. Brutus. Enobaria. I've seen their eagerness. I've seen their bloodlust, too"[14].
In the 74th and 75th Hunger Games, both District 2 males (Cato and Brutus) were the last to die, and their last kills were the District 11 males.
Both male volunteers from District 2 in the 74th and 75th Hunger Games were killed by volunteers from District 12. Cato was killed by Katniss[15], and Brutus was killed by Peeta[13].
The book states that Brutus killed Chaff and caused Peeta to go on a rampage killing Brutus[13]. In the film, it is shown that Chaff was killed, but Brutus' fate is ambiguous. That being said, a cannon was fired prior to the arena destruction, indicating that he was killed, likely by Peeta.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ 2.0 2.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 17

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ 5.0 5.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 19

↑ 7.0 7.1 Marian Green on Twitter

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 21

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 22

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 23

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 25

↑ 12.0 12.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 26

↑ 13.0 13.1 13.2 13.3 Mockingjay, Chapter 2

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 6

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 25





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





