

Bug

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Peacekeeper



	
		Home
	
	District 11 (previously)
District 12



	
		Weapon
	
	Peacekeeper's rifle



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes







"Coriolanus found himself paired with Bug, who turned out to be a first-class climber, having been raised in District 11, where the children helped to tend the orchards. They spent a sweaty but productive couple of hours working, with Coriolanus baiting and Bug hauling the traps into the branches."
—Bug's talent at climbing[src]
Bug was a diminutive male individual who enlisted as a Peacekeeper in District 12. He was roommates with Smiley, Junius (Beanpole), Coriolanus Snow (Gent), and Sejanus Plinth (Bull's Eye).[1] Having been raised in District 11, Bug was a talented climber and was easily able to catch jabberjays and mockingjays in the woods.[2]

Biography[]
Bug grew up in District 11, where he tended the orchards along with the rest of the children and learned to quickly climb trees during harvest.[2] At some point, he was sent to District 12 to become a Peacekeeper and became friends with his bunkmate, Smiley.[1]
After Coriolanus Snow and Junius arrived at the Peacekeeper base and cleaned up, Smiley and Bug collected them and led them to the mess hall, where they ate and conversed.[1] When Sejanus Plinth arrived, Smiley and Bug greeted him warmly, having been cleaned out at the poker table earlier.[3]
Bug went to the Hob along with his bunkmates to watch the Covey perform. The day after that, they were hungover and bruised from the night before, and were disappointed to learn that they weren't to leave the base alone.[4]
When the Peacekeepers were told to trap the forest to collect jabberjays and mockingjays, Bug was paired up with Coriolanus and hauled traps into the branches with ease.[2] He began to work with Dr. Kay after impressing her with his agility, and later, she requested him to help again. Bug collected the trapped jabberjays, replacing their cages with newly baited ones, and stated that they should be left in the traps. As he continued his work, Dr. Kay watched him approvingly. Back at the base, he and Coriolanus unloaded the cages and helped the scientists bring them to the birds' temporary home in an old hangar, agreeing to care for the birds before they were taken to the Capitol. However, Bug believed that they would be happier if just left in the woods.[5]
Later, Bug and Coriolanus helped set up mist nets to capture the mockingjays, which had evaded the other traps. Bug was a natural at it and gentle with the birds, contrary to Coriolanus. They attended to the birds and took them to the lab table to be numbered and tagged, returning after dinner to fasten cloth covers on the cages and carry them to the hovercraft. He was disappointed about the birds leaving, but cheered up when Sejanus arrived with news that Mrs. Plinth had sent another delivery of baked goods.[6]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 21

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 25

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 26

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28






