

Caesar Flickerman

	
		
			
				
					
						
							Film
							
						
					
				
					
						
							Illustrated Edition
							
						
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
						
						
					
				
			
		
			
				
					
						
						
					
				
			
		
	



	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Around 65 (implied)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Master of Ceremonies



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Fate
	
	Unknown




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger GamesCatching FireMockingjaySunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games filmThe Hunger Games: Catching FireMockingjay - Part 1Mockingjay - Part 2The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping (upcoming)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Stanley Tucci (original trilogy)Kieran Culkin (SOTR)Stavros Demetraki (stage)







"Handsome lad like you. There must be some special girl. Come on, what’s her name?"
—Caesar Flickerman asking Peeta who he loves[src]
Caesar Flickerman is the host for the Hunger Games, responsible for interviewing tributes the night before the competition began.[2]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Early career
1.2 74th Hunger Games
1.3 75th Hunger Games
1.4 Rebellion


2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Relationships
5 Gallery
6 Trivia
7 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who does Caesar Flickerman interview before the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Caesar Flickerman, the presenter of the Hunger Games, conducts interviews with each tribute on the eve of the games. The interviews are arranged by district, with the female tribute preceding the male. Flickerman's questions cover the tributes' life at home, experiences in the Capitol, training scores, and the reaping.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How many years has Caesar Flickerman been the host of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Caesar Flickerman, the renowned Hunger Games presenter, has held the position for more than 40 years. The earliest known Games he hosted was the 50th Hunger Games, which took place 24 years before the trilogy's onset. Flickerman is celebrated for his ability to transform mundane remarks into unforgettable statements and his empathetic approach towards the tributes.
					
					
						Provided by: Community
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What special event did Caesar Flickerman host during the 50th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						As the distinguished Hunger Games announcer, Caesar Flickerman hosted the pre-game interviews with the tributes. These interviews, a significant event preceding each Hunger Games, involved discussions about the tributes' lives, their experiences in the Capitol, and their training scores. This tradition was upheld during the 50th Hunger Games as well.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How does Caesar Flickerman's appearance change for the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, Caesar Flickerman, the Hunger Games announcer, adopts a powder blue color scheme. His hair, eyelids, and lips are all dyed to match his midnight blue suit, adorned with thousands of tiny twinkling electric bulbs. This annual transformation is a signature of Caesar's, known for his flamboyant and colorful attire.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is Caesar Flickerman's role in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Caesar Flickerman serves as the Master of Ceremonies. His duties include interviewing tributes on the eve of the competition. He possesses a knack for transforming lackluster responses into memorable moments. Despite being a favorite among Capitol citizens, he exhibits empathy for the tributes, striving to highlight their strengths to enhance their game prospects.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Early career[]
According to Katniss Everdeen, he was the host of the Hunger Games for more than forty years.[2] The earliest known edition he hosted was the 50th Hunger Games, 24 years prior to the start of the trilogy. That year, he had to interview twice the regular number of tributes in honor of the second Quarter Quell.[3] It is suggested that he had hosted many games before that as Haymitch indicates he changes his suit every year, meaning this is not his first.

74th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Caesar with Katniss for her 74th Hunger Games interview. 		 	 
Katniss says that his look in the 74th Hunger Games looked much better. He is shown to help tributes in each district with their interviews. In that year, his hair, lips and eyelids were dyed powder blue. While Caesar interviews Rue, they discuss her chances of winning, because the odds are against her. Rue says that she is fast and if they can't catch her they can't kill her and to not count her out, to which Caesar replies "I wouldn't in a million years."
While interviewing Katniss, he helps her because she doesn't do well in front of cameras. For example, when he asks Katniss what she liked the most since she came to the Capitol, she answers, "The lamb stew." He remarks that he can eat it by buckets and makes a horrified face when he asks the crowd if it shows. The crowd reassures him that it doesn't.[2]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Caesar with Peeta the night of the 74th Hunger Games interviews. 		 	 
When he interviewed Peeta, the two of them were described as a good team, feeding off of each other and bantering easily. It was to Caesar in this interview that Peeta first revealed his love for Katniss, shocking everyone.[2] The interview was said to have gone down amazingly with the audience[4].
After the Games were over and they had an interview with Katniss and Peeta, he mainly conversed with Peeta[5][6] since Katniss is not very talented when it comes to speaking for the cameras and televised interviews[2][5].

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Flickerman during the Victory Tour. 		 	 
75th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Caesar announces the 3rd Quarter Quell. 		 	 

"We have never seen anything like it before... And we will never see anything like it again."
—Caesar Flickerman in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire[src]
As he did with the previous Games, Caesar helped the tributes in the 75th Hunger Games with their interviews. This year, his hair, lips and eyelids were dyed lavender. While interviewing the tributes, his questions were met with snide remarks from tributes. Most of them were bad mouthing the Capitol as a sign of rebellion before they went into the arena for a second time. 

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss and Caesar 		 	 
When he interviewed Katniss, he mentions her upcoming nuptials to Peeta. As per Snow's request, Katniss was wearing her wedding dress. Katniss was unaware that Cinna had made a few adjustments so that as she twirled, the dress would morph into a black mockingjay outfit.[7] Caesar then interviews Peeta, who claims that he had been unofficially married to Katniss for months and that she is pregnant. While both claims are false, they explain Katniss' sudden "breakdown" and obtain sympathy. This revelation caused the audience to go wild, upstaging all of the other tributes' interviews (as Peeta also did the year before[4]). This also upset the Capitol audience enormously because they had grown to love Katniss and Peeta, and the thought that they would not both survive after being so close to each other, and that an unborn baby would probably be killed in the arena, overwhelmed them.[8] This resulted in some of them supporting the rebellion, not the Games.
At the end of Caesar's interviews, all of the victors stood and held hands as a show of unity; this influenced the Capitol audience further still[8].

Rebellion[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Caesar interviews Peeta 		 	 
In Mockingjay, Caesar interviews a tortured Peeta. Caesar asks him questions like how he feels about the rebels and Katniss. While Peeta is explaining, he tells him and the audience how it feels to be in the Hunger Games, which fascinates them because no victor has ever spoken of this. Caesar tries to make Peeta as comfortable as possible during the interview. It is cut short when Peeta asks to go back to his cell, due to Caesar's comments on Katniss and her place in the rebellion.[9]
Caesar interviews Peeta for the second time. This interview is short, during this interview the two exchange empty comments to each other. Caesar asks Peeta about the rumors of Katniss shooting a propo. Peeta tells him that she probably doesn't know what they are doing to her and to not trust them. The last thing Peeta says before the interview ends is for Katniss to find out what they are doing.[10] 
In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, Caesar interviews Peeta a third time in place of President Snow. During the interview, Peeta states he thinks they should end the war with a ceasefire because if they have a war it could mean the end of all living things. Caesar questions Peeta's statement and asks him more on his thoughts of the rebellion. Peeta warns the rebels of the impending bomb attack from the Capitol on District 13. The interview is cut short when the Peacekeepers go on stage and beat Peeta and take him away to receive a punishment.[11][12]
In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2, Caesar is featured in a Capitol announcement about the alleged death of Katniss and Squad 451 in a Peacekeeper attack, when actually only Leeg 1 and Leeg 2 were killed[13].
Caesar's ultimate fate is not revealed in the books or films, leaving it up for speculation whether he died or survived the war. Despite often-repeated claims that Suzanne Collins confirmed in a 2011 interview that he was spared from execution, no such statement can be located.

Physical description[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Caesar's Capitol Portrait 		 	 
He appeared virtually the same over the course of his career. Every year, he wore the same pure white makeup, the same hairstyle, and the same "ceremonial" midnight blue suit, "dotted with a thousand tiny electric bulbs that twinkle[d] like stars." The only thing that changed annually was the color of his hair, and his eyelids and lips were done up to match.[2]

50th Hunger Games - Dark green[3]
73rd Hunger Games - Crimson; it looked like he was bleeding[2]
74th Hunger Games - Powder blue[2]
75th Hunger Games - Lavender[7]
Personality and traits[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Caesar makes Peeta feel at ease. 		 	 
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Capitol Couture Portrait 		 	 
Caesar is known for being helpful and brings out the best in the tributes. Katniss also notes that she thinks Caesar acts like this so that the tributes don't get worried or nervous. He is also known to like the Capitol's lamb stew. He thinks of himself as a little on the "tubby" side and loves Katniss' interview dress in the first book and asks her to twirl. It says in the book that Caesar can make a weak response into a memorable one. Like most Capitol citizens and TV personalities, Flickerman has had noticeable surgery done on his face as noted by Katniss, and is rather interested in the arts of fashion as displayed with his vibrant and colorful costumes and suits. He is well liked by the Capitol citizens audiences, yet seems to have some sympathy for the tributes of the Games and honestly tries to bring the best out of them and increase their chances of survival.[2]  
Stanley Tucci remarked that he thought Caesar to be "creepy, with the sort of false generosity and duplicity." Others view Flickerman's deameanor more as that of an amiable talk show host looking to help the tributes through the interviews.

Relationships[]
In the novel, Claudius Templesmith and Caesar have no known relationship. Yet, in the film adaptation, Caesar is placed as a co-host to Claudius during the chariot rides and actual Hunger Games[6].

Gallery[]
Caesar Flickerman's first appearance.Caesar interviewing Seneca Crane.
Trivia[]
It is unknown whether any particular real-world talk show hosts were inspirational to the character of Caesar Flickerman, though Stanley Tucci did suggest that some existed in a special feature on the Blu-Ray of The Hunger Games: Catching Fire. It appears that Caesar is a sort of conglomerate of them in general.
The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes features a character named Lucretius "Lucky" Flickerman, a popular weatherman for Capitol TV who was tapped to be the first ever host for the 10th Hunger Games. Their shared last name suggests a familial relation, and a legacy of involvement in both television and the Hunger Games.
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Lucky could briefly be heard making a restaurant reservation for a "party of two and a high chair", hinting at having a child. Fans have speculated that he was referring to Caesar. This would also make Caesar 65-66 by the time of Mockingjay. [14]
If Caesar's comments during his interview with Panache Barker are to be taken seriously, then Caesar failed biology.[15]
Caesar Flickerman is not allowed to bet on tributes contractually. [16]
References[]


↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes - If Caesar is the son of Lucretius Flickerman, he would have been an infant during the 10th Hunger Games.

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 The Hunger Games, Chapter 9

↑ 3.0 3.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 10

↑ 5.0 5.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 27

↑ 6.0 6.1 The Hunger Games film

↑ 7.0 7.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 17

↑ 8.0 8.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 2

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 8

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 9

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 13

↑  Tribute Interviews Deleted Scene: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cinpd3zlqjU 




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White






