 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Peeta Mellark at the camouflage station. 		 	 
Camouflage is the practice of concealing oneself from view. Tributes used camouflage during the Hunger Games to avoid being seen. The morphlings from District 6 were rather fond of this station in their training sessions, as they spent the whole time there before the 75th Hunger Games.[1] Peeta Mellark also used this skill, which he learned by applying skills from frosting cakes at his family bakery.[2]

Contents

1 Advantages and disadvantages
2 History

2.1 74th Hunger Games
2.2 75th Hunger Games


3 Known users
4 References



Advantages and disadvantages[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Peeta demonstrating his camouflage skills. 		 	 
This tactic was usually employed by tributes who preferred relying on survival skills over confronting their rivals directly in the arena. By blending in convincingly with their surroundings, tributes could hide in plain sight. This gave them the privilege of being able to ambush their targets without any warning; it was also ideal for concealing themselves whenever they sustained injuries.
The one flaw in this tactical approach lies in the fact that camouflage permits limited to no mobility. A camouflaged tribute who moved could run the risk of shedding their camouflage on accident, especially if it didn't adhere to the tribute's body. They could also find themselves under attack if another tribute observed the moving piece of scenery and chose to investigate.

History[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Peeta's camouflage in The Hunger Games: Illustrated Edition. 		 	 
74th Hunger Games[]
In the 74th Hunger Games, Peeta used mud to camouflage himself into the river bank when he was injured, as Cato stabbed his thigh to the bone and Peeta had no way of healing himself.[3] Katniss Everdeen also used mud to camouflage her bright orange backpack with her surroundings.[4] The Careers did not pay much attention to this tactic during training (or the Games), due to their fighting style being limited to direct conflict as opposed to stealth.

75th Hunger Games[]
At the Training Center for the 75th Hunger Games, the District 6 tributes spent most of their time at the camouflage station. To Peeta's annoyance, they left a big mess and not a lot of paint behind by the time he had his personal session with the Gamemakers.[1]
During the Games, Katniss mentioned that the skin cream her alliance received would be good camouflage in the jungle.[5] Later, the female morphling suddenly emerged from where she had camouflaged herself into the beach, throwing up her arms in sacrifice to save Peeta.[6]

Known users[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The female morphling painting Peeta's arm in the Training Center. 		 	 
Peeta Mellark -  In both the Training Center and the 74th Hunger Games, Peeta showed skill in camouflage as he disguised himself to look like a rock.[3]
The morphlings - In the 75th Hunger Games training, the morphlings spent most of their time at the camouflage station painting each other.[1] The female also used the tactic in the 75th Hunger Games. She only revealed herself during the monkey mutts' attack in order to sacrifice herself to save Peeta's life.[6]
Katniss Everdeen - In the 74th Hunger Games, Katniss smeared mud on her orange backpack, hoping to camouflage the bright color.[4]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 7

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 19

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 12

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 25

↑ 6.0 6.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 21






