 
Capitol TV is the main television network within the Capitol. It was used for promotional purposes in regards to the film The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, where President Snow addressed the nation of Panem. The TV network was also known for broadcasting the Hunger Games.
As it was created by Lionsgate, Capitol TV was not mentioned in the original The Hunger Games trilogy as an official network. However, it did appear in The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, alongside another organization called Capitol News.
Lucretius "Lucky" Flickerman worked as a weather reporter for Capitol TV and was later tapped to host the 10th Hunger Games.[1] Capitol TV also covered the funeral of Arachne Crane,[2] as well as the bombing of the Capitol Arena.[3]

Contents

1 Panem Addresses

1.1 Together As One
1.2 Unity


2 District Voices

2.1 District 2

2.1.1 Keeping the Peace with District 2


2.2 District 5

2.2.1 District 5: Electric Sparks From Falling Water


2.3 District 6

2.3.1 Transporting Our Heroes with District 6


2.4 District 8

2.4.1 District 8's Resourceful Style


2.5 District 9

2.5.1 A District 9 Paean to Peeta's Bakery




3 Trivia
4 References



Panem Addresses[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Poster for Panem Address "Together as One" 		 	 
Together As One[]

"Panem Today, Panem Tomorrow, Panem Forever."
—President Snow, addressing the nation of Panem.
"President Snow's Panem Address: Together As One" was the first address from President Snow. The address was made in efforts to preserve a peaceful and prosperous Panem with Peeta Mellark standing by President Snow.
It was released to the public on June 25, 2014 as the first teaser trailer for The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1.

  	 	 			  
Unity[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Poster for Panem Address "Unity" 		 	 
"The Mockingjay Lives."
—Beetee Latier, after hacking into the TV network.[src]
"President Snow Presents: Unity" is the second Panem address by President Snow. In this address to the nation, victors Peeta Mellark and Johanna Mason stand by President Snow as he commends citizens for their cooperation and unwavering dedication to a unified Panem.
Halfway through the video, Beetee Latier appears on the screen and announces that "The Mockingjay Lives" before his transmission is cut short.

  	 	 			  
District Voices[]
District 2[]
Keeping the Peace with District 2[]
Ever wonder how our Peacekeeper force is so incredibly skilled? District 2’s Senior Peacekeeper Training Officer Shane Fazen reveals to CapitolTV the meticulous regimen his trainees endure in order to join the ranks of Panem’s elite forces.Hosted by the YouTube channel fightTIPS. Originally uploaded October 21, 2014.
  	 	 			  
District 5[]
District 5: Electric Sparks From Falling Water[]
Main article: Coriolanus 9
Panem finds power in the radiance of the sun, and the water which rains down upon us! District 5’s Chief Energy Researcher Derek Muller takes CapitolTV on a tour of our nation's cutting edge renewable technologies, and demonstrates one of the largest ‘Kelvin’s Thunderstorm’ experiments ever built to date… all for a brighter and more efficient Panem. Hosted by the YouTube channel Veritasium. Originally uploaded October 22, 2014.
  	 	 			  
District 6[]
Transporting Our Heroes with District 6[]
Peacekeepers must always be prepared to leap into action—and so must their equipment. District 6 Liaison to the Capitol Justine Ezarik takes CapitolTV on a tour of the SJ-7 Peacekeeper Assault Vehicle, and the driving force behind the protectors of Panem.Hosted by the YouTube channel iJustine. Originally uploaded October 24, 2014.
  	 	 			  
District 8[]
District 8's Resourceful Style[]
Who knew Peacekeeper uniforms were so versatile? Discover another side to District 8 with Rob & Corinne, as they demonstrate the many possibilities for excess textile materials and resins, only on CapitolTV.Hosted by the YouTube channel ThreadBanger. Originally uploaded October 20, 2014.
  	 	 			  
District 9[]
A District 9 Paean to Peeta's Bakery[]
As the breadbasket of Panem, District 9 supplies the grain that nourishes this great country. Join Jimmy Wong and Ashley Adams in a cooking CapitolTV demonstration honoring beloved victor Peeta Mellark, featuring an homage to a family bakery favorite.Hosted by the YouTube channel Feast Of Fiction. Originally uploaded October 23, 2014.
  	 	 			  
Trivia[]
Despite being created by a Capitol-run network, every District Voices video contains hidden anti-Capitol messages or includes within them information which can be used against the Capitol.
District 2's video includes a list of techniques Peacekeepers use in close-combat, ostensibly to allow rebels in the Districts without weapons to counter their moves and take them down in physical combat (which would likely have assisted the rebels in the dam bombing shown in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1)
District 5's video highlights a major power producing location for the rebels to take down.
District 6's video lists all the statistics of the SJ-7 Peacekeeper Assault Vehicle, including the strength of explosives required to destroy them as well as inform rebels of a method by which not to attack the vehicles by (which would later be put into effect as shown in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2)
The scissors gesture at the end of the District 8 video, when paused at the right time, appears as a hidden three-finger salute.
The flour on the baking sheet in the District 9 video is spread in the shape of a mockingjay pin before the preparation of the tarts.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 9

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10






