Capital punishment is a legal penalty in Panem. It is applied for many crimes, and is one of the main tools of repression and control by the Capitol.  

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Peacekeepers executing captured rebels publicly. 		 	   
History[]
For presumably most of Panem's history, the country operated as a totalitarian dictatorship, a police state in which all 12 (previously 13) districts were subservient to the ruling government of Panem seated in the Capitol. All major industries were owned by wealthy Capitol oligarchs, and the country imposed a centrally planned economy on all districts. Each district was obligated to produce a particular good, such as coal, lumber, agriculture, textiles, meat, and electronics. Nearly of their produce was ultimately shipped to the Capitol to serve its overwhelming greed. 
Capital punishment served as a principal tool of control and repression, and the list of crimes that were punishable by death were rather long. Interestingly, imprisonment was never mentioned as a punishment, although near the end of Catching Fire, several Hunger Games victors were captured by the Capitol and imprisoned, being tortured for information about the rebellion.  
As the primary law enforcement agency throughout Panem, the Peacekeepers were mostly responsible for carrying out executions, although in District 12, they were noted to be significantly more lenient than Peacekeepers in larger districts such as District 11. Under the leadership of Head Peacekeeper Cray and Mayor Undersee, public executions were rare in District 12, as many of the Capitol's harsh laws were unenforced.  
After the overthrow of the Capitol in Mockingjay, large numbers of Capitol officials, including President Coriolanus Snow, Peacekeepers, Gamemakers, and cabinet members were captured, tried, and sentenced to death for their crimes against humanity, which included war crimes. President Snow himself was sentenced to be publicly executed by Katniss Everdeen.  
Following the establishment of the constitutional republic after the Second Rebellion, it is unknown whether capital punishment was retained or not, despite the executions of numerous officials affiliated with the Snow regime. Capital punishment was most likely either abolished or became reserved for the most serious crimes such as premeditated murder.   

Capital crimes[]
Being an instrument of repression, the Capitol regularly employed the death penalty as a means of control and to discourage insurrection. The list of crimes punishable by death under the Capitol's regime was rather long. 

Murder
Insurrection
Verbal dissent
Possession of and producing weapons, except for utilitarian weapons such as knives, and weapons needed for certain districts' industries, such as axes, spears, and tridents.
Theft of Capitol property, including hunting and foraging.
Possessing forbidden symbols, such as the mockingjay
Acts that encourage sedition and rebellion, including the three-finger salute.
Military desertion
Traveling outside of one's district, unless for approved purposes such as military deployment, participating in the Hunger Games.
Execution methods[]
The primary methods of execution were hanging and shooting. The latter method could take place in the form of a single shot to the head or through firing squad. 
However, the Capitol was also known to use torture against criminals and dissidents, and many simply died in the process of being tortured. Capital punishment is primarily the task of Peacekeepers, the Capitol's security force tasked with maintaining law and order in the districts and the Capitol itself. Extrajudicial executions were extremely common, especially in larger and poorer districts such as District 11.





