

Chaff


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15-18 (45th Hunger Games)[1]
45-48 (75th Hunger Games)



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor (45th Hunger Games)[1]
Tribute (75th Hunger Games)[2]



	
		Home
	
	Victor's Village in District 11



	
		Weapon
	
	Spear (training)[3]



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	E. Roger Mitchell







"I know Chaff by sight cause I've spent years watching him pass a bottle back and forth with Haymitch on television."
—Katniss Everdeen about Chaff[src]
Chaff was the male tribute for District 11 who participated in the 75th Hunger Games and was the victor of the 45th Hunger Games.[1]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Training
1.1.2 Interview
1.1.3 Cornucopia bloodbath
1.1.4 The Games
1.1.5 Death




2 Physical description
3 Personality
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the outcome of Chaff's participation in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Chaff, a tribute from District 11, took part in the 3rd Quarter Quell, or the 75th Hunger Games. He was part of the rebellion, tasked by Haymitch Abernathy to safeguard Katniss and Peeta. However, Chaff was slain by Brutus towards the end of the games, shortly before Katniss Everdeen shattered the Arena's force field.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Chaff lose his hand during the 45th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the 45th Hunger Games, Chaff lost his hand, though the specific incident is not described. Katniss Everdeen surmised that Chaff declined a prosthetic hand offered by the Capitol. Post his victory, Chaff resorted to alcohol to manage his trauma and developed a friendship with Haymitch Abernathy.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the relationship between Chaff and Haymitch Abernathy?
						
				
				
					
						Chaff and Haymitch Abernathy, both victors of the Hunger Games, share a longstanding friendship marked by a shared sense of humor and occasional bad attitude. Their relationship spans their mentoring careers, often characterized by their shared indulgence in alcohol and propensity for playing jokes on others.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did Chaff turn to alcohol after his victory in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Chaff, winner of the 45th Hunger Games, resorted to alcohol to manage his traumatic experiences. His distress was compounded by the loss of his hand in the games and his decision to decline a prosthesis. The death of his family, orchestrated by President Snow after his defiant victory, intensified his alcoholism. He formed a bond with Haymitch Abernathy, a fellow victor, who similarly used alcohol to cope with his trauma.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did Chaff accept a prosthesis for his lost hand from Capitol doctors?
						
				
				
					
						Chaff, a victor of the 45th Hunger Games, lost his hand during the games. Katniss Everdeen speculated that he likely refused a prosthesis offered by Capitol doctors. Post-victory, he used alcohol as a coping mechanism and befriended Haymitch Abernathy. He was reaped again for the 75th Hunger Games, the 3rd Quarter Quell.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Chaff won the 45th Hunger Games between the ages of 15 and 18, but lost his left hand in the process. Katniss Everdeen speculated that he may have refused a prosthesis from Capitol doctors.[1] Following his victory, he turned to alcohol to cope with his trauma, and became friends and drinking buddies with Haymitch Abernathy.[2][1]

75th Hunger Games[]
Being a previous victor, Chaff was reaped for the 75th Hunger Games (the 3rd Quarter Quell)[2]. Along with Beetee, Wiress, Finnick, Mags, Johanna, Seeder, Woof, Cecelia, Blight and the morphlings, Chaff was part of the rebellion and was instructed by Haymitch Abernathy to try his best to find Katniss and Peeta and to make sure they both lived after they were reaped during the 75th Hunger Games. He was one of the few tributes who knew about the plan to get Katniss out of the arena, to District 13.[4]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Chaff's chariot costume 		 	 
Training[]
After the Tribute Parade, Chaff and Seeder rode back to the Training Center when all the other tributes had gotten together. After being introduced by Haymitch, Chaff gave Katniss a kiss on her lips which surprised her, causing her to push him away. Chaff and Haymitch laughed at her reaction.[1] They were good friends and seemingly both alcoholics.
During training, Chaff and Peeta became close and talked often during training. They both were shown training together with Brutus at the spear throwing station, and had lunch together.[3]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Chaff's suit from his interview with Caesar 		 	 
Interview[]
During Chaff's interview with Caesar Flickerman, he stated that President Snow could change the Quell if he wanted to but wouldn't because he thought it doesn't matter to anyone[5]. After all the interviews were finished, Chaff joined hands with the other victors as an act of solidarity, which Snow took as an act of outright rebellion. He and Katniss were the first to join hands at the interviews, suggesting he was one of the more rebellious victors.[6]

Cornucopia bloodbath[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Finnick Odair (left), District 9 female (middle) and Chaff (right) on their metal plates. 		 	  Chaff survived the initial Cornucopia bloodbath[7], he stood on the pedestal on the right of the District 9 female. Although Seeder, his district partner, was killed, he managed to escape into the jungle to hide[7].
The Games[]
Chaff was not seen much during the Games, most likely seeking Katniss as it was his mission to protect and rescue her so she could help the rebels defeat the Capitol. Unfortunately, he could not locate her or Peeta until near the end of the Games.

Death[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Chaff's death portrait. 		 	 
Chaff was able to make it to the final 8. Later on in the Games, he finally met up with Peeta, only to be killed by Brutus moments later. Shortly after, Peeta avenged Chaff's death by killing Brutus.[8] Chaff placed 8th out of 24, meaning he was one of the last tributes to die. This was unfortunate because with the right survival instincts, he and the other victors could have lived long enough for Katniss to blow up the force field and live.

Physical description[]

"He's dark-skinned, about two meters tall, and one of his arms ends in a stump because he lost his hand in the Games he won thirty years ago."
—Katniss about Chaff[src]
Chaff was at least six feet tall, probably as tall as Thresh, with dark skin, and had an arm that ended with a stump because he lost his hand in the 45th Hunger Games. He and Haymitch were friends, as they both turned to drinking after they won their Games.[1] Chaff was in his mid to late forties when he died. He was killed at the very end of the 75th Hunger Games by Brutus at the free-for-all just minutes before Katniss Everdeen destroyed the force field surrounding the Arena.[8]

Personality[]
Chaff seemed to be a troublemaker, as Effie implied when she said he "never could stay out of a fight".[2] Chaff loved to laugh and was one of Haymitch's close friends[2], whom he drank with. Chaff joked by kissing Katniss on her lips and laughing with Haymitch at her reaction[1]. However, he did have a soft side, shown when he was friendly and kind to Katniss and Peeta during the training sessions[3], as well as when he backed Seeder up during her interview, and when he joined hands with the other Victors at the end of the interviews without hesitation, unlike Enobaria and Gloss[6].

Etymology[]
"Chaff" is a word for the outer hull of grain that is often removed during the refining process. It is a countermeasure used to spoof radar.

Trivia[]
In the film, Chaff's face is shown in the sky on the second day even though in the book he was killed by Brutus on the third day[9].
In the film, Chaff has a scar along his left cheek[9].
Chaff is the last District 11 tribute to die in the Hunger Games.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 27

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 17

↑ 6.0 6.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ 7.0 7.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 20

↑ 8.0 8.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 2

↑ 9.0 9.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





