

Circ


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 3



	
		Weapon
	
	Sword (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Felix Audu







"Io Jasper's District 3's boy, Circ, said he could start a fire with his glasses, and she, with her scientific know-how, suggested various angles and times of day that would facilitate the task."
—Coriolanus Snow describing Circ's interview.[src]
Circ was the male tribute from District 3 in the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Io Jasper.[1] With his district partner Teslee, he worked to make use of the drones that delivered sponsor gifts to tributes during the Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 10th Hunger Games
1.2 Death

1.2.1 Film adaptation




2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Gallery
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Circ play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Circ represented District 3 as a male tribute. His journey to the Capitol was in a grimy cattle car, and he was housed in the Capitol Zoo's monkey house. Circ and his district partner, Teslee, ingeniously used the drones delivering sponsor gifts during the games. His participation ended tragically when venomous snake mutts bit him, ranking him 7th out of 24 tributes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Circ and Teslee utilize the drones during the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Circ and Teslee strategically used drones. They gathered drones near Marcus's deceased body, with Teslee reattaching wires on a drone, leading to blinking lights. They also retrieved drones with gifts from Io Jasper, Circ's mentor. Teslee notably hacked a drone, blocking other drones' signals, causing a swarm around Mizzen, resulting in his demise.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Circ's journey to the Capitol like for the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						For the 10th Hunger Games, Circ was transported to the Capitol via a cargo train. Upon arrival, she was dropped into the monkey enclosure at the Capitol Zoo, where she was held until the Games started. She interacted with Capitol children visiting the zoo and charmed a reporter, which could have aided her survival.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What district did Circ represent in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Circ represented District 3. He collaborated with Teslee, his district partner, to utilize the drones delivering sponsor gifts.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Circ grew up in District 3 and became his district's male tribute in the reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1]
Along with the other tributes, Circ was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2]
During the interviews, Circ told the audience that he could start a fire with his glasses. His mentor, Io Jasper, suggested several angles and times of day that would make the task easier, as she did have some scientific knowledge.[3]

10th Hunger Games[]
On the first day of the Games, he and his district partner, Teslee, collected drones that landed near Marcus's dead body. While assessing the damage, Circ removed the battery and gave a thumbs-up to Teslee, who reattached some wires on another drone. When two more drones came in with gifts from Io Jasper, they collected them and ran back to the barricade after seeing Reaper Ash appear.[4]

Death[]
When only seven tributes remained in the arena, Dr. Volumnia Gaul released a swarm of venomous snake mutts into the arena in retaliation for the death of Gaius Breen. Circ and Teslee, who were both running away initially because of Treech, stopped to look at the snake tank. Unlike Treech, who had sprinted away immediately after the tank had burst, Circ and Teslee stayed only for a few moments of confusion, which came at a great cost. Teslee managed to narrowly escape the swarm of snakes, but Circ was not so lucky, and quickly met his end thanks to the muttations' deadly venom. Pink, yellow, and blue streaked his body as bright pus came out of his wounds.[5]
Later that day, Circ's body was collected by Reaper and organized in his makeshift morgue.[6]

Film adaptation[]
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Circ ran toward the pile of weapons when the gong rang. There, he was pushed by Coral and fought with some tributes with a sword. He then went after Reaper and tried to kill him or Dill; upon failing, he returned to where the other tributes were. Circ was trying to climb the pile of weapons and kill Lucy Gray Baird when Coral threw the trident at his chest, leading to him placing 17th.[7]

Physical description[]
Circ wore glasses.[3]

Etymology[]
Circ's name is a shortening of the word "circuit."

Gallery[]
Circ entering the Capitol Arena.Concept art of Circ and Teslee's costumes.Behind-the-scenes image of Felix Audu (Circ).
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





