

Clerk Carmine Clade


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Around 12 (The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes)
Around 52 (Sunrise on the Reaping)
Around 77 (Mockingjay)




	
		Also known as
	
	CC



	
		Occupation
	
	Musician



	
		Home
	
	The Seam in District 12District 13



	
		Relatives
	
	Unnamed parentsBilly Taupe Clade † (older brother)Lenore Dove Baird † (adoptive niece)The Covey (adoptive family)Burdock Everdeen † (distant relative)Unnamed partner †



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	MockingjayThe Ballad of Songbirds and SnakesSunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Konstantin Taffet
Jeffrey Hallman (SOTR)







"That's Clerk Carmine on fiddle!"
—Maude Ivory to a crowd at the Hob[src]
Clerk Carmine Clade, sometimes known as CC, was a member of the Covey, and he played the fiddle in their band. He was the younger brother of Billy Taupe Clade, and later in life, he was one of Lenore Dove Baird's guardians.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 10th Hunger Games
1.2 50th Hunger Games
1.3 In District 13


2 Personality and traits
3 Physical description
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What instrument did Clerk Carmine Clade play in the Covey band?
						
				
				
					
						Clerk Carmine Clade, often referred to as CC, was a fiddle player in the Covey band. His performances were marked by complex finger work, enhancing the band's melodies. His debut was at the Covey's first show at the Hob, following the 10th Hunger Games, introduced by Maude Ivory.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Clerk Carmine Clade's brother?
						
				
				
					
						Billy Taupe Clade was the brother of Clerk Carmine Clade.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What role did Clerk Carmine Clade play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Clerk Carmine Clade, or CC, was a fiddler in the band, the Covey. He demonstrated his musical skills during the band's first performance at the Hob after the games. Konstantin Taffet portrayed Clerk Carmine in the film, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who introduced Clerk Carmine Clade at the Hob's first musical performance?
						
				
				
					
						At the Covey's inaugural musical event at the Hob, following the 10th Hunger Games, Clerk Carmine Clade, often referred to as CC, was introduced by Maude Ivory. His role in the band was as a fiddle player.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was the primary singer during Clerk Carmine Clade's fiddle performance?
						
				
				
					
						Lucy Gray Baird was the main vocalist during the fiddle performance by Clerk Carmine Clade, a member of the Covey band. Clade enhanced the song with his expert fiddle playing.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
10th Hunger Games[]
During the Covey's first musical performance at the Hob after the 10th Hunger Games, Clerk Carmine played his way across the stage after being introduced by Maude Ivory. During a song primarily sung by Lucy Gray Baird, Clerk Carmine embellished the melody with some fancy finger work on his fiddle while the others backed him up.[1]
Billy Taupe appeared at the performance of the Covey after being kicked out, trying to convince them to take him back. After the others rejected him, he tried to appeal to Clerk Carmine, asking him if it was how he felt as well, but Carmine stood his ground and did not reply. Later, when Billy Taupe came back to the house they lived in, Clerk Carmine hung his head off the loft and looked unhappy.[2] Lucy Gray worried about Clerk Carmine, as he still missed his brother.[3]
When Barb Azure Baird took a pan of chilled milk out of the fridge, Clerk Carmine retrieved a churn Tam Amber had made, hoping to make cream for butter for Maude Ivory. Even though it was said to be a fool's errand, he hoped it might work if they gave it another day, as Maude Ivory was crazy for butter.[4] 
During a discussion of the ballad Lucy Gray Baird had been named after, he chimed in after Maude Ivory said that the Lucy Gray was different, calling her a "bonehead" and saying that she was a ghost and had fallen down a bridge and died. However, Maude Ivory didn't think this possible, as the snow would look different if she had fallen. She then appealed to Lucy Gray Baird, asking her to explain, but responded that it was a mystery, like her name. At the lake, Clerk Carmine brought Lucy Gray some katniss, but it wasn't yet in season for eating.[3]
After Maude Ivory fell asleep, Clerk Carmine brought over a bright blue feather he had found, wanting it to be an anonymous gift for her. When she awoke, she admired the feather and Lucy Gray fixed it in her hair. While heading back to town, Clerk Carmine spotted a tree full of apples and climbed it to throw down fruit to the others.[5]

50th Hunger Games[]
For thirty years, Clerk Carmine was in a relationship with a man who lived in town. They kept their relationship a secret to avoid harassment and discrimination.[6]
By the time of the 50th Hunger Games, he had an adopted niece, Lenore Dove, who he raised with Tam Amber after her mother died giving birth to her. He did not approve of her relationship with Haymitch Abernathy, which might have been because the Abernathys used to be known as rebels. He also discouraged her connection to the Chances, who were known for their reckless behavior.[6] On the day of the reaping, he called for Lenore Dove to get ready. She had been crying in the Meadow with Haymitch, and he shot him a disapproving look when she returned.[6] During the reaping, Lenore Dove got into trouble during the disarray after Woodbine Chance was killed. Upon its conclusion, Lenore Dove was put in handcuffs by a Peacekeeper until Clerk Carmine and Tam Amber bribed him with money to let her go. They led her down a sideroad when she tried to get to Haymitch, who had been reaped in Chance's place.[7]
Lenore Dove was arrested again not long later for playing forbidden songs in front of the Justice Building, causing Clerk Carmine and Tam Amber great stress, as she was being held in the Peacekeepers' base.[8] When she was given permission to return home on house arrest, Clerk Carmine allowed her five minutes of privacy in the Meadow. However, Haymitch met her there and unintentionally fed her poisoned gumdrops planted by President Snow. Although he shouted for Clerk Carmine, Lenore Dove died almost immediately after.[9]
Clerk Carmine took her from Haymitch's arms, trying futilely to restart her heart as he called her name. One night, he played Lenore Dove's song on his fiddle. Haymitch overheard and pounded on the door of the Covey's house in desperation.[10]

In District 13[]
Clerk Carmine escaped the bombing of District 12 and traveled to District 13 with his fiddle. He accompanied a choir of children at the wedding of Finnick Odair and Annie Cresta.[11][12][13] 

Personality and traits[]
As Lenore Dove's guardian, Clerk Carmine was stern and highly protective of her. He disapproved of her relationship with Haymitch.[10]

Physical description[]
At twelve years old, Clerk Carmine was skinny and wore a hat adorned with colorful feathers when performing. He had a similar appearance to his brother.[1]
As an adult, he wore patched overalls, protecting his hands by shoving them in the pockets. He had a voice that carried without him needing to raise it.[6]

Etymology[]
Clerk seems to be an older form of the name Clark, both coming from the Latin "clericus", meaning a member of the clergy or a scholar. Since Covey names are drawn from ballads,[3] his is taken from Clerk Saunders.[13]
The second part of his name, Carmine, is a shade of deep red, and Clade might come from the Ancient Greek "kládos", meaning a young slip or shoot of a tree, the kind broken off for grafting.[14]

Trivia[]
Clerk Carmine is one of the four characters confirmed to be part of the LGBTQ+ community. The others are Pluribus Bell, Cyrus, and fellow Covey member Barb Azure Baird.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 23

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 27

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 25

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28

↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 2

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 14

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 26

↑ 10.0 10.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 27

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 16

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, A Q&A with Suzanne Collins

↑ 13.0 13.1 THE BALLAD OF SONGBIRDS AND SNAKES SCHOLASTIC INTERVIEW

↑ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clade




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana



Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White





