
"We're heading down to the dining hall for 18:30—Dinner when Gale's communicuff begins to beep. It looks like an oversized watch, but it receives print messages. Being granted a communicuff is a special privilege that's reserved for those important to the cause, a status Gale achieved by his rescue of the citizens of 12."
—Description of Gale Hawthorne's communicuff[src]
A communicuff was a piece of technology used in the Capitol[1] and District 13.[2]

Contents

1 Description
2 History

2.1 10th Hunger Games

2.1.1 Communipad


2.2 District 13


3 References



Description[]
A communicuff looks like an oversized watch, but instead of showing the time, the face displays a printed message. They are used throughout District 13 and were also used in the Capitol. In District 13, it was considered a great privilege to be given a communicuff, as they were exclusively given to those who were important to the cause of the rebellion.[2]

History[]
10th Hunger Games[]

"That's my tribute, Lamina, from District Seven. And my communicuff is open for business. Never too late to show your support and send a gift!"
—Pliny Harrington, urging sponsors to send gifts via his communicuff[src]
For the 10th Hunger Games, all of the members of the Academy's mentor program who still had a tribute remaining when the Games started were issued communicuffs. This made them the objects of envy, as the Dark Days had resulted in the disappearance of much personal technology, since manufacturing had focused on other priorities. The communicuffs buckled onto mentors' wrists and each featured a small screen showing a tally of sponsor gifts in blinking red. The mentors could scroll down a list of food items, select one, and then double-click it in order to signal a Gamemaker to send the gift via drone.[1] The communicuffs sounded a ping each time that the mentors received a new sponsor gift. The communicuffs only worked through the transmitters at the Academy or the Capitol News station. This meant that many of the mentors chose to stay at the Academy late or even sleep there as the Games continued, so that they could receive instant notification of sponsor gifts.[3]

Communipad[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sejanus Plinth sitting at his communipad. 		 	 
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, communicuffs were instead adapted as communipads, which were electronic devices resembling retrofuturistic desktop computers. By default, communipad screens featured a rotating image of a tribute, their odds, and the amount they had received in donations. Mentors could also access a selection screen and scroll through different food items to send into the arena.[4]

Lamina's donations screen.The communipad's selection screen.
District 13[]
In District 13, Gale was given a communicuff due to his bravery and for rescuing over 800 District 12 citizens. He later lost that privilege after blocking Commander Boggs' way when he tried to stop Katniss as she dismissed herself from the room. Boggs' elbow hit Gale's nose during the incident, resulting in it bleeding profusely. It seems that communicuffs were given to leaders and taken away from those who didn't deserve it or broke the rules.[2] However, Gale eventually got his communicuff back as a bribe not to tell Katniss Everdeen about Peeta Mellark.
Katniss found his communicuff repelling in some moments when she was furious with District 13's governing. She found herself questioning Gale, thinking he would just go and report everything to President Alma Coin with the communicuff in sight.[5]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 2

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 9






