

Commander Hoff


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Peacekeeper commander



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Fate
	
	Replaced




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Burn Gorman







"But during drill practice, the base commander himself, an old goat named Hoff, dropped by and observed for a short time. Before leaving, he exchanged a few words with their drill sergeant, who promptly called Coriolanus and Sejanus forward."
—Commander Hoff arriving during drill practice[src]
Commander Hoff was the commander of District 12's Peacekeepers around the time of the 10th Hunger Games.


	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Commander Hoff play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the 10th Hunger Games, Commander Hoff led District 12's Peacekeepers. He noticed the skills of Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth in Peacekeeper drills and, recognizing their potential, instructed them to witness the execution of Arlo Chance.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Commander Hoff view Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth?
						
				
				
					
						Commander Hoff, the District 12 Peacekeepers' leader during the 10th Hunger Games, held nuanced perspectives on Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth. He admired their Peacekeeper drill performance, demonstrating approval of their abilities. Hoff also showed empathy towards Snow when he reported Plinth's betrayal, yet remained unaware of Snow's involvement in Mayfair Lipp's death.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did Commander Hoff order Snow and Plinth to attend Arlo Chance's hanging?
						
				
				
					
						Impressed by their performance in Peacekeeper training exercises, Commander Hoff ordered Snow and Plinth to attend the hanging of Arlo Chance, a rebel sympathizer. Hoff desired a larger crowd for the spectacle.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What kind of interactions did Commander Hoff have with Snow later in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						During the 10th Hunger Games, Commander Hoff, the District 12 Peacekeepers' leader, interacted with Coriolanus Snow on multiple occasions. He noted Snow's performance during Peacekeeper drills and discussed a plan to eliminate mockingjays. When Snow exposed Plinth's betrayal via a jabberjay to Volumnia Gaul, Hoff offered Snow comfort, recognizing the challenge of betraying a friend.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
He was an elderly man described as an "old goat." He observed Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth during Peacekeeper drills and, impressed with their performance, ordered them to attend the hanging of Arlo Chance because he wanted more bodies there for the show. During the hanging, he emerged from a car that had a flag of Panem on the hood with six other officers.[1]
Later, Hoff spoke with Snow following Sejanus Plinth's execution for treason. Snow thought that the commander had discovered his killing of Mayfair Lipp and was about to have him executed as well. Hoff, however, knew nothing of this and instead had called him in because Snow had sent a jabberjay to Volumnia Gaul in the Capitol, containing a recording which revealed Plinth's betrayal. He comforted Snow, saying that it couldn't have been easy to inform on his friend, and briefly discussed whether or not Sejanus would have been involved with the murders. He then informed Snow that it was his birthday and bid him to join the party. 

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Promotional still of Commander Hoff. 		 	 
The celebration was held in the Peacekeeper mess hall, with a generous supply of beer and whiskey, an enormous frosted cake, and a musical performance by the Covey. The next day, Snow was again summoned to Hoff's office. He was once again convinced that he was being brought to his execution, but Hoff instead congratulated him, telling him that he had passed the officer candidate test and would soon leave for District 2 in a hovercraft to attend an elite training program.[2]
Ultimately, Snow was sent back to the Capitol instead of District 2 and began studies at University, having been granted an honorable discharge from the Peacekeepers by the manipulative Dr. Volumnia Gaul. At some point not long after Snow returned, he learned that Hoff had been replaced as the commander in District 12 with somebody new whose first move had been to outlaw shows like those performed by the Covey at the Hob, because music caused trouble.[3]

Trivia[]
Hoff's birthday was August 27th.[2]
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 29

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue







