

Commander Paylor


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Early 30s[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Commander (Second Rebellion)President of Panem



	
		Home
	
	District 8 (originally)The Capitol (after rebellion)



	
		Weapon
	
	Machine gun



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Mockingjay - Part 1
Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Patina Miller







"She looks young to be a commander. Early thirties. But there is an authoritative tone to her voice that makes you feel that her appointment wasn't arbitrary."
—Katniss Everdeen about Commander Paylor[src]
Paylor was a rebel leader and commander from District 8 during the Second Rebellion.[1] Following the success of the rebellion, she was voted the first democratically elected president of Panem.[2]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Film adaptation


2 Physical description
3 Personality
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Commander Paylor play in the Second Rebellion of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Second Rebellion of the Hunger Games, Commander Paylor was a key rebel leader in District 8. After the rebellion's success, she ascended to the presidency of Panem. Her role was further elaborated in the film adaptation, where she strategized with other rebels in District 2 to seize the Capitol's weaponry.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Commander Paylor become the new president of Panem in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Following President Coin's assassination by Katniss Everdeen, an emergency election was held in the Hunger Games. Commander Paylor, the District 8 rebel leader, was elected as Panem's new president in the first democratic election for political representation. Known as 'the voice of reason', Paylor was anticipated to win by a significant margin. Her leadership saw the abolition of the Hunger Games and the establishment of a constitutional republic.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Commander Paylor's leadership style in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Commander Paylor, a key figure in the Hunger Games, demonstrated a leadership style marked by strength, respect, and a lack of vengefulness. Despite her contempt for President Snow and the Capitol due to their crimes, she advised the rebels to concentrate on capturing Snow, rather than attacking Capitol citizens. Her leadership was characterized by an authoritative tone, indicating her role was not arbitrary.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Commander Paylor's first interaction with Katniss Everdeen in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Katniss Everdeen's initial interaction with Commander Paylor occurred in District 8's hospital during the filming of a propo for the Airtime Assault on the Capitol. Paylor, accompanied by Gale Hawthorne, Boggs, and a TV crew, escorted Katniss into the hospital, scrutinizing her leadership potential for the rebellion. The group later confronted an assault from Capitol hovercrafts.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What district was Commander Paylor a rebel leader in during the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the Second Rebellion in the Hunger Games, Commander Paylor emerged as a significant rebel leader in District 8. She spearheaded the Battle of District 8, marking the first of the earliest battles in the rebellion. Post-rebellion, she ascended to the role of President of Panem, demonstrating her effective leadership.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Paylor in District 8. 		 	 
Katniss Everdeen first meets Paylor when she goes to the District 8 hospital in order to film a propo for the Airtime Assault on the Capitol. Paylor takes Katniss along with Gale Hawthorne, Boggs, and the TV crew into the hospital. Paylor watches Katniss closely, to see what she is made of and if they have been right to count on her.[1]
After Katniss leaves the hospital, Capitol hovercrafts fly in and begin to bomb the hospital. In an effort to fight against the bombers, Katniss and Gale climb to the roof of a warehouse that has machine gun nests. This is where they run into Commander Paylor again. Together, they all work to destroy the other waves of hovercrafts that fly overhead.[1]
Commander Paylor later returns in the story when Katniss is living in the president's mansion. Katniss follows the strong scent of President Snow's roses until she finds a room that is being guarded by two soldiers. At first, they do not permit her entrance to the room because they are following Alma Coin's orders. However, when Paylor appears, she instructs the soldiers to let Katniss go in and they obey her authority. Katniss enters to find President Snow, awaiting his execution, and the two of them have a brief conversation. Snow informs Katniss that he was not responsible the City Circle bombing, which killed many Capitol children and medics, including Primrose Everdeen; rather, President Coin was behind it.[3] When Katniss emerges, Paylor asks her, "Did you find what you were looking for?", and Katniss holds up a rose, which Paylor takes as an affirmative response.[4]
After Katniss assassinates President Coin, an emergency election was thrown together and Paylor was voted in as president. Under her rule, the Hunger Games were abolished, the arenas were destroyed, and memorials were built. It can be assumed that Paylor successfully set up the republic that Plutarch Heavensbee announced that they would form after the Capitol's defeat. She also pardoned Katniss for the assassination of Coin and declared her mentally unstable and let her return to District 12. Plutarch became her Secretary of Communications.[2]

Film adaptation[]
Paylor's role is expanded upon in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2. She is seen in District 2 alongside Commander Lyme and the other rebels. Interacting with President Coin via a live feed, the three discuss ways in which the rebels can capture the Capitol's arsenal of weaponry held inside the large mountain nicknamed "the Nut". Given the suffering that the people of District 8 have already been through, Paylor refuses to commit her troops to an assault just to acquire weapons, as Coin suggests. Paylor and Lyme eventually persuade Coin to agree to Gale Hawthorne's plan: disabling the Nut by bombing avalanche paths, burying many of the people and assets inside. One exit was left open to give the Capitol loyalists a chance to surrender.[5]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Paylor gives a speech in front of a digital screen with information about pods. 		 	 
After the success of this mission, Paylor is later seen giving a rousing speech to rebel forces assembled on the outskirts of the Capitol. She explains how they will capture President Snow and take control of the city.[5]

Physical description[]
Paylor is in her early thirties, and she was mentioned to look too young for her occupation. She has dark brown eyes.[1] 

Personality[]
Although a strong and respectable leader, Commander Paylor was one of the very few rebels who was not overly concerned with vengeance. Though holding President Snow and the Capitol in contempt for their crimes against the districts, Paylor urged the rebels not to attack Capitol citizens and to only focus on capturing Snow.[5]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Mockingjay, Chapter 8

↑ 2.0 2.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 27

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 25

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 26

↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2






