

Control Room


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Location
	
	The Capitol



	
		Inhabitants
	
	Gamemakers


	Appearances


	
		Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games film, The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Mentioned
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping





The Control Room is where the main events of the Hunger Games are controlled and headed, such as the chariot rides, interviews, and training scores. The Hunger Games are operated by the Gamemakers from this room.
The Control Room is seen in The Hunger Games film and in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire at various points before and during the 74th Hunger Games and 75th Hunger Games, most commonly when Head Gamemaker, Seneca Crane, directs his subordinates.

Description[]
In the film, the Control Room shows a large holographic view of the arena on the circular center console. There are two semicircles of seated Gamemakers and tables on both sides, each with holographic screens in front of them. The room has blue, futuristic lighting.
On their screens, Gamemakers can monitor each tribute's status, location, and decide who to focus the cameras on. They can alter the temperature, change the apparent time of day, trigger traps, and create and unleash muttations.[1]
For the 75th Hunger Games, a different control room is shown to that used for the 74th. The room is almost identical in layout, with the addition of an office for the Head Gamemaker, Plutarch Heavensbee, on the upper level.[2]
Viewers of the Hunger Games were shown the control room, but it was not revealed to them that there was, in fact, a secret Gamemaker level within the arena itself, in order to maintain the illusion of the Games being controlled from afar. This was an entirely subterranean floor, known as Sub-A, which managed manual tasks such as unleashing muttations or stocking a feast, though this was all secondary to the real job of managing the onsite computer system that was central to running the Games.[3]

Gallery[]
Seneca Crane viewing the Games through the control room.A wolf mutt being created.Concept art of the control room.
References[]


↑ The Hunger Games film

↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 10






