

Cray


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Elderly



	
		Occupation
	
	Head Peacekeeper (formerly)



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Weapon
	
	Gun



	
		Fate
	
	Presumed deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Wilbur Fitzgerald







"Who'd have thought we'd ever be sorry to see old Cray go?"
—Haymitch Abernathy about Cray being replaced[src]
Cray was the Head Peacekeeper of District 12[1] before he was replaced by Romulus Thread.[2] During his tenure as Head Peacekeeper, the local black market prospered due to his leniency, and he turned a blind eye to hunting, which officially had been forbidden by the Capitol.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Catching Fire


2 Physical description
3 Personality
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Cray's role in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Cray served as the Head Peacekeeper of District 12. He exploited desperate young women from the Seam by offering money for sex. Eventually, he was replaced by Romulus Thread and is presumed deceased.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why was Cray replaced as the Head Peacekeeper of District 12?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Cray was replaced as the Head Peacekeeper of District 12 by Romulus Thread due to his mysterious disappearance. Cray's law enforcement was lenient, contrasting with Thread's harsh regime. Additionally, Cray exploited desperate women from the Seam, trading money for sex.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Cray exploit the local black market during his tenure as Head Peacekeeper?
						
				
				
					
						Cray, the Head Peacekeeper of District 12, manipulated the local black market for personal gain. He bought items like white liquor, and exploited desperate young women from the Seam, offering money for sexual favors. The authorities largely overlooked the black market, as they too were involved.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					In what ways did Cray's leniency impact hunting in District 12?
						
				
				
					
						Cray's leniency as the Head Peacekeeper of District 12 allowed citizens to hunt in the surrounding woods and engage in black market trade, despite these actions being technically illegal. His replacement, Romulus Thread, imposed strict enforcement of these laws, resulting in a harsher regime.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Cray was known to exploit starving young women from the Seam by offering them money in exchange for sex. In hard times, the most desperate women gathered at his door, essentially competing with each other for the chance to feed their families. According to Katniss Everdeen, if she had been older when her father died, she might have been among them.[2] This suggests that Cray also victimized teenage girls.

Catching Fire[]
Katniss saw Cray in the Hob after she bought white liquor for Haymitch Abernathy. Cray, a heavy drinker, warned her of how strong the alcohol was, saying that it could probably kill her. Only seconds later did Cray buy a bottle of the same alcohol.[1] He was Gale Hawthorne's best customer when it came to poached wild turkeys, but Gale was surprised when he knocked on the door one day to find Cray replaced as Head Peacekeeper. Romulus Thread, the new Head Peacekeeper, saw the dead turkey hanging from his belt and dragged Gale to the square, where he was forced to plead guilty to his crime and withstand a public whipping. He was whipped at least forty times, and fell unconscious around thirty before Katniss stepped in to stop it.[2]
In the film, Cray greeted Commander Thread upon arrival. However, a bag was thrown over his head and he was immediately arrested. Cray's fate is unknown,[3] but following his arrest, he was most likely executed on President Snow's orders for his laxness and leniency.

Physical description[]
Cray is described as being an older man with "a few strands" of silvery gray hair combed to one side, and he had an unusually red face.[1] He was also referred to several times as "old Cray",[2] suggesting he may have been closer to elderly than middle-aged.

Personality[]
Cray was disliked by most citizens in District 12 for being a Peacekeeper, and especially for exploiting the young women of the Seam.[2] He could often be seen drinking liquor instead of doing his job.[1]
However, for all of his faults, he was quite lenient with the law, and during his tenure as the Head Peacekeeper, he neglected to enforce many of the strict laws that were in place and harshly enforced in other districts. Many laws, notably the ones against black market trading and against hunting and gathering, were left unenforced. As such, a considerable number of citizens actively engaged in such activities, including Cray himself, who was known to frequent the black markets and purchase liquor. 

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Catching Fire, Chapter 1

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 8

↑  The Hunger Games: Catching Fire






