

Cyrus

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Musician



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (Killed by bombs during the Dark Days)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Mentioned
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes







"You know, I packed everything away after the bombs got Cyrus. Silly, really. As if I could forget the love of my life so easily."
—Pluribus Bell about Cyrus[src]
Cyrus was a musician and the partner of Pluribus Bell. Together, they ran a nightclub in the Capitol.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Cyrus play in the Hunger Games universe?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games universe, Cyrus was a musician and the partner of Pluribus Bell, operating a nightclub in the Capitol. He tragically died in a bombing prior to the 10th Hunger Games, an event that led Pluribus to pack away their musical instruments in grief.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Cyrus's romantic partner in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games universe, Cyrus was the romantic partner of Pluribus Bell. They jointly operated a nightclub in the Capitol. Cyrus, a musician, tragically lost his life in the First Rebellion due to a bombing. Pluribus, in his grief, packed away their musical instruments, acknowledging later that forgetting Cyrus was impossible.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What kind of business did Cyrus and Pluribus run in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						In the Capitol, Cyrus and Pluribus managed a nightclub. Amidst the First Rebellion, they supplemented their business by trafficking essential goods, including food, through the nightclub's back alley.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What goods were trafficked from the back alley of Cyrus and Pluribus's nightclub?
						
				
				
					
						In the period of the First Rebellion, Cyrus, in partnership with Pluribus, trafficked essential goods, notably food, from the back alley of their nightclub due to its scarcity.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Sometime before or around the time of the Dark Days, Cyrus became romantically involved with Pluribus Bell, and together they owned and ran the nightclub. However, during the rebellion, Cyrus and Pluribus made do by trafficking goods from its back alley (notably food, which was sparse at the time).
When Coriolanus Snow and the Grandma'am headed there one day, they were greeted by many crates of dried lima beans that had just arrived. The Snows agreed to take home as many crates as the club owners could spare, so Cyrus and a friend hauled the crates up the stairs of the Snow penthouse and piled them in the middle of the living room. This was done in the dead of the night, as hoarding food was illegal.[1]
At an unknown time before the 10th Hunger Games, Cyrus was killed in a bombing. In response, Pluribus packed all their musical instruments away, although he later stated that it had been a silly thing to do, as he would never forget Cyrus so easily. He loaned one of their guitars to Coriolanus on request, trusting him and his assigned tribute to take care of it.[2]

Etymology[]
Cyrus is a Persian name translated as "sun" or "one who bestows care".

Trivia[]
Cyrus is one of four characters confirmed to be a part of the LGBTQ community. The others are his partner Pluribus, Clerk Carmine Clade, and Barb Azure Baird.[3]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 27






