

Dalton


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Unknown



	
		Occupation
	
	Maintain Genetic Diversity on Beef Ranch



	
		Home
	
	District 10[1]
District 13[1]



	
		Weapon
	
	Unknown



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male





Dalton was a District 10 refugee that made his way to District 13 by foot many years before Katniss Everdeen arrived[1].


	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Dalton's job in District 10 before he became a refugee?
						
				
				
					
						Dalton, from the Dalton games, was previously employed in District 10 at a beef ranch. His role involved preserving the herd's genetic diversity by implanting long-frozen cow embryos.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Dalton make his way to District 13?
						
				
				
					
						Dalton, originally from District 10, journeyed to District 13 on foot. His previous occupation involved preserving genetic diversity on a beef ranch through the implantation of frozen cow embryos. Dalton's relocation to District 13 occurred several years prior to Katniss Everdeen's arrival.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why does Dalton suggest that District 13 needs refugees?
						
				
				
					
						Dalton, a character in the Hunger Games, believes that District 13 requires refugees due to a prior pox outbreak that reduced the population and caused widespread infertility. The arrival of refugees would offer a fresh genetic pool, enhancing the district's sustainability and enabling more births.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What impact did the pox epidemic have on District 13 according to Dalton?
						
				
				
					
						Dalton reported that District 13's pox epidemic resulted in substantial population loss, with many survivors becoming infertile. This led to a scarcity of children and an eagerness to accept refugees during the Second Rebellion for population replenishment. To survive, District 13 developed advanced technologies and sought a new genetic gene pool for sustainable population growth.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
During his life in District 10 he had worked on one of the beef ranches, maintaining the genetic diversity of the herd with the implantation of long-frozen cow embryos.
He suggests to Katniss that District 13 needs all the refugees they can get because, ever since a pox epidemic killed many of their own and left even more infertile, they have needed a new genetic gene pool to draw from in order to have children and make their population more sustainable.[1]
Dalton was part of a small group of District 13 people who were invited to a meeting by Haymitch Abernathy to brainstorm ideas to help the propos for the rebellion. It was apparent Katniss could not act well and the idea was suggested that she go to District 8 to visit an area that was bombed and that the footage be used for a promo/message to President Snow. At this meeting Dalton suggests that they should "wash her face," and goes on to say, "She's still a girl and you make her look thirty-five. Feels wrong. Like something the Capitol would do." Katniss later mentions that she is glad she washed her face because people recognize her with her imperfections, not the makeup.[2]
Dalton was a participant in Annie Cresta's and Finnick Odair's wedding. He held the marriage ritual because it was similar to District 10's own wedding ceremonies.[3]

Trivia[]
As previously mentioned, in the Mockingjay book, Dalton suggested that Katniss Everdeen shouldn't wear makeup in the propaganda videos so she would seem natural[2]. However, Dalton does not appear in either movie adaptations, and the line is said by Boggs instead[4].
References[]

↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Mockingjay, Chapter 1

↑ 2.0 2.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 6

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 16

↑ Mockingjay, Part 1






