

Daniel Bernhardt


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Daniel Bernhardt



	
		Character
	
	District 9 male



	
		Birthday
	
	August 31, 1965



	
		Birthplace
	
	Worblaufen BE, Switzerland



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Years active
	
	1996–present



Daniel Bernhardt is a Swiss actor, stuntman and martial artist who portrayed the District 9 male tribute in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire. Daniel is a Swiss-born actor who has appeared in films such as The Matrix Reloaded and Supreme Champion.

Previous career[]
After finishing high school, Bernhardt studied architectural design for four years and graduated in Bern. At the same time he opened a martial arts school with his brother. After completing his studies, Daniel moved to Paris and started to work as model. He worked for designers such as Montana, Mugler, Boss, Cerruti, Versace, and Jaene Barnes, and was published in the magazines Vogue, Elle, Max, Interview, and Cosmopolitan. Later, he established himself as an international Top Model.

Acting career[]
Later, Bernhardt moved to New York, where he was cast to co-star with Jean-Claude Van Damme in Bruce Weber's TV spot Looking for Kicks for Gianni Versace. Producer Marc Di Salle, who launched Van Damme's carrier with Bloodsport and Kickboxer, discovered Daniel Bernhardt and cast him to star in the sequel Bloodsport II (1996) which was his debut, opposite such actors as Pat Morita and James Hong, including comic relief big guy Donald Gibb and Taekwondo champion Philip Tan. The same year, a sequel Bloodsport III (1996) was released, again with Morita and James Hong, including John-Rhys Davies, and 9th degree black belt Taekwondo master Hee II Cho.
From that point, Daniel began his career as action star on low budget films. His next films were Future War (1997), opposite Robert Z'Dar, Black Sea Raid (1997), True Vengeance (1997), with Miles O'Keeffe and Beverly Johnson and Perfect Target (1997) with Robert Englund and Brian Thompson. After these films, Daniel's interest in acting became bigger and he started to study acting in Los Angeles under Harry Mastrogeorge. So, he continued with G2 (1998), again with James Hong, Bloodsport 4: The Dark Kumite (1999), the last one in the series, this time against Brazilian JuJutsu champion Stefanos Miltsakakis.
He appeared on TV series Mortal Kombat: Conquest, as Siro, and it was followed by Global Effect (2002) and a mega hit Matrix sequel, Matrix Reloaded (2003), where he appeared as upgraded agent Johnson and worked with great names such as Laurence Fishburne, Keanu Reeves, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, Monica Bellucci, Lambert Willson and Jada Pinket Smith. He also lent his voice to agent Johnson in the Enter The Matrix video game.
The same year, he filmed an action independent film, titled The Librarians (2003), where he co-starred with William Forsythe, Burt Reynolds, Erika Eleniak, Andrew Divoff, Amaury Nolasco, Christopher Atkins, Ed Lauter and Matthias Hues. He worked on Children of Wax (2005), The Cutter (2005), opposite Chuck Norris and Joana Pacula, Ultimate Champion (2009) and Foodfight! (2009).

External Links[]
 Daniel Bernhardt at the Internet Movie Database
 Daniel Bernhardt on Wikipedia
 Daniel Bernhardt on X




