

Darius

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Early 20s[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Peacekeeper (formerly)
Avox



	
		Home
	
	District 12 (formerly)
The Capitol (briefly)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Mockingjay







"Let’s show a little district pride for a change, Miss Everdeen. Hm?"
—Darius to Katniss Everdeen [src]
Darius was one of the youngest known Peacekeepers in District 12, and a frequent customer at the Hob.[1] He was later enslaved in the Capitol as an Avox.[2]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Early life
1.2 Peacekeeping

1.2.1 Gale's whipping


1.3 Enslavement
1.4 Death


2 Physical description
3 Personality
4 Etymology
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Darius play in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Darius, a young Peacekeeper from District 12, was known for his friendly nature. He was enslaved by the Capitol as an Avox, preventing him from speaking. He served the District 12 tributes during the 75th Hunger Games. His life ended tragically in the Capitol.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What district was Darius stationed in as a Peacekeeper?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Darius was stationed as a Peacekeeper in District 12, frequently visiting the local Hob.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Darius become an Avox in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						Darius, once a Peacekeeper in District 12 and regular at the Hob, was enslaved and transformed into an Avox by the Capitol. This was a tactic by President Snow to scare Katniss in the 75th Hunger Games. As an Avox, Darius was compelled to serve the tributes from District 12 at the Training Center and endured torture.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Darius's relationship with Katniss Everdeen in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Darius was a peacekeeper in District 12 and developed a friendly rapport with Katniss Everdeen. He was known for his playful teasing, such as offering a kiss for a rabbit. Katniss appreciated Darius for his humor and non-threatening demeanor.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Where was Darius presumably born and raised before enlisting as a Peacekeeper?
						
				
				
					
						Darius, known from the Hunger Games, likely had his early life in either the Capitol or District 2, typical birthplaces for Peacekeepers. He then enlisted as a Peacekeeper and served in District 12.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Early life[]
Little is known of Darius's early life. He was presumably born and raised in the Capitol or District 2, as most Peacekeepers were,[3] before he eventually enlisted.

Peacekeeping[]
Darius was stationed in District 12, where he regularly frequented the Hob.[1] Six months before the 74th Hunger Games, right after New Year's, Darius teased Katniss Everdeen about trading a rabbit for one of his kisses. He leaned up against the post of Greasy Sae's stall, tickled Katniss's cheek with the end of her braid, and pointed out other women around who serve as "references", making Katniss and Greasy Sae laugh.[4]
When Katniss stopped by the Hob on the morning of the Victory Tour, Darius bought a bowl of soup from Greasy Sae and joked with Katniss about her appearance, lack of "district pride", and impending departure.[1]

Gale's whipping[]
After the Victory Tour, Gale Hawthorne was whipped by Romulus Thread, and Darius was knocked unconscious for trying to intervene after "about twenty lashings". He'd grabbed Thread's arm, then he was struck in the head with the butt of the whip. Haymitch Abernathy nearly tripped over Darius on the ground when he arrived on the scene. Once Katniss, Haymitch, and Peeta Mellark got Thread to stop, a small group of Peacekeepers stuck behind and lifted Darius by his arms and legs,[5] presumably to carry him back to the base.

Enslavement[]
Katniss was later horrified to discover that the Capitol made Darius into an Avox.[2] Alongside Lavinia, he was forced to serve the District 12 tributes at the Training Center during the 75th Hunger Games. Katniss believed it was no coincidence that Darius was placed in their apartment, and that President Snow had ordered him to serve there to frighten her.[6]

Death[]
While imprisoned in the Capitol, Peeta witnessed the electrocution death of Lavinia and the torture of Darius. The guards beat him, cut off body parts, and questioned him, but as an Avox, he was unable to answer; he only made "horrible animal sounds" as they tortured him. Peeta believed that the goal had just been to force him to watch. It took days of beatings and mutilations until Darius died,[7] presumably having succumbed to his injuries.

Physical description[]
Katniss described Darius as probably being in his twenties, but that he didn't seem much older than she did. His messy red hair and his smile gave him a boyish charm and makes him stand out from most of the people living in District 12.[1] Upon his enslavement as an Avox, the Capitol mutilated his tongue so he could no longer speak.[6]

Personality[]

"As law enforcers go, he's one of my favorites. Never really throwing his weight around, usually good for a joke."
—Katniss Everdeen[src]
Darius was easygoing, often joking around with Katniss and Greasy Sae at the Hob.[1][4] He was also willing to intervene against a fellow Peacekeeper when he saw Gale getting punished so brutally,[5] so he seemed to have a strong moral compass.

Etymology[]
Darius is derived from the Persian name Dariush, meaning "holding firm the good"— where good is understood to mean truth and righteousness.

References[]

↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Catching Fire, Chapter 1

↑ 2.0 2.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 13

↑ 4.0 4.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 14

↑ 5.0 5.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 8

↑ 6.0 6.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 19






