

The Fallen


	
		
		
	
	Mags's portrait during the Fallen



	
		Location
	
	In every arena (presumably from the 11th Hunger Games onwards)



The Fallen is a special event that takes place every night in the Arena, where its main function is to indicate the number of tributes killed that day (after the Cornucopia bloodbath, after an event organized by the Gamemakers, or after a normal day) so that the rest who are still alive can mourn those who died.

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Cannons


2 History

2.1 The 1st Hunger Games up to 10th Hunger Games
2.2 Between the 11th Hunger Games and 49th Hunger Games
2.3 50th Hunger Games
2.4 Between the 51st Hunger Games and 73rd Hunger Games
2.5 74th Hunger Games
2.6 75th Hunger Games


3 Order pictures
4 Terminology
5 Trivia
6 References



Description[]
At the end of each day in the arena, the national anthem was played, followed by a display of all tributes that had died that day. The fallen were shown one by one in district order, accompanied by their official Games portrait and district number.
For Capitol and district audiences watching the broadcast, the nightly death roll was accompanied by footage of each tribute's death, reinforcing the spectacle and trivialization of the death of children in the Games. This ritual served as a practical mechanism of informing both the audience and the surviving tributes in the arena of the day's casualties and the number of competitors remaining. Inside the arena, however, tributes only saw the portraits of the deceased. This omission preserved a degree of uncertainty, forcing tributes to piece together circumstances of each death from what they had witnessed themselves or could infer from the environment.[1]
Another function it has is that it indicates the end of the day and the beginning of a new one.
In Sunrise on the Reaping, the anthem "Gem of Panem" was played, while in the trilogy, the anthem "Horn of Plenty" was played. 

Cannons[]
The firing of the cannon was another form of the death toll. A cannon fired upon the death of each tribute in the arena. Like the Fallen, this also gave tributes uncertainty as they would not know who had died, unless they had witnessed their death. The cannons were used in the 50th, 74th, and 75th Hunger Games, but was not used in the 10th Hunger Games. In the Catching Fire film when Peeta went clinically dead from the force field, there was a scene in the Control Room where Plutarch Heavensbee instructed the Gamemakers to "prepare the cannons," implying that Plutarch anticipated Peeta's death.

History[]
The 1st Hunger Games up to 10th Hunger Games[]
In the first Hunger Games, the function of knowing who had died inside the Arena was not applied at this point. 
In the 10th Hunger Games, it is shown that the tributes could not hear who had died and the only way to rule anyone out was to see how many victims there were in the area. However, the people in the Capitol could hear a kind of sound or buzzing indicating that a tribute had died, and on the screens showing the image of the tribute, the logo of the Victory of Pamen appeared.

Between the 11th Hunger Games and 49th Hunger Games[]
Throughout these games, this type of event began to be created. It is unknown when and who came up with the idea, but it was implemented for the 50 games.

50th Hunger Games[]
They were already implemented in these games, although they are described very differently from future versions. This is because they will undergo further changes in upcoming games. 
In the book, Haymitch mentions that images of the dead tributes appeared in the sky in color so that those who had died could be identified, since numbers were not used at that time. An example is on the first day. He says that the girl who appears is not Silka, but her partner, and he knows this because of the color of her clothes.
In the 50th Hunger Games, then anthem "Gem of Panem" played while displaying the dead tribute's portraits.[2]

Between the 51st Hunger Games and 73rd Hunger Games[]
They will continue to undergo changes over time.

74th Hunger Games[]
In the book, Katniss says that a glider carries a screen showing images of the deceased tributes, which are the same ones used to publish the training notes.
In the film, everything is different. The projection had a gridded, scanline pattern with blocky-like text. The portrait is centralized. The Gamemakers projected the images onto the dome of the arena. They appeared directly in the sky in an electric blue color. First, the Capitol logo appeared, followed by images of the dead. The tributes came out wearing the arena's clothing. Below each tribute, the district number appeared, and behind the tribute, the same text reappeared but slightly more transparent, forming a cascade that flowed downward.

75th Hunger Games[]
In the book, Katniss doesn't say anything about it. She just sees them. It's possible that it will remain the same as in previous games.
The film maintains the same style as the previous film, using a combination of blue colors, but the Capitol logo no longer appears. Another change is that all text is visible and the waterfall effect is no longer used.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			A comparison between the 74th and 75th Hunger Games' projection (left to right) 		 	 
Order pictures[]
The images appear in order according to their district. First those from District 1, then those from District 2, then those from District 3, followed by District 4, District 5... and so on until District 12, depending on the number of deaths.
In the book Dawn at the Harvest, it seems that the male tribute appears first, followed by the female tribute. This is mentioned on the first day. It mentions that when it is District 6's turn, Milles, the boy from 6, appears first, followed by Velo, the girl from 6. It also mentions this on day 4. When she sees District 3 in the sky, it says that Ampert appears first, followed by his companions.
In the movie The Hunger Games, Bravura appears first, then Tippet (the girl from District 4) supposedly appears. Later, Stele (the boy from District 7) appears, followed by his partner from District 7.
In the movie Catching Fire on Day 1, the District 9 male tribute appears before his partner, although on Day 2, this order is not followed as Cashmere appears before Gloss. This may be an error.
Therefore, the order that is usually shown is the order of the list of tributes. First the male and second the female. In the case of the 50th Hunger Games, it would be first the male, then his female partner, then the other male followed by his other female partner.

Terminology[]
The term 'The Fallen' came from the films when the projections started with the text 'The Fallen' before going on to display the portraits.

Trivia[]
Assuming that the projections started in the 11th Hunger Games, portraits were displayed for a total of 65 years.
In the books, the projections were displayed on massive screens carried by cloaked hovercraft that traversed the skies of the arena. In the film adaptations, the images were projected onto the sky dome that enclosed the arena.
References[]


↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 11

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 3






