

Diana Ring


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Also known as
	
	Didi



	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Apollo Ring (twin brother)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (book)
Unknown (film)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Emma Brüggler





Diana Ring, also known by the nickname "Didi", was a student at the Academy and a mentor for the District 6 female tribute, Ginnee, during the 10th Hunger Games. She was killed in a bombing while taking her tribute on a tour of the arena.
She was one of the two Ring twins, the other being her brother Apollo Ring. She and her brother wholly embraced their status as twins, sporting identical outfits and sunny personalities.[1]


	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Diana Ring play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Diana Ring, known as Didi, was an Academy student in the Capitol and mentored the District 6 female tribute, Ginnee, in the 10th Hunger Games. She was part of the prominent Ring family in the Capitol. Her life was tragically cut short due to a bombing.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Diana Ring's twin brother?
						
				
				
					
						Apollo Ring is the twin brother of Diana Ring. They are collectively known as the 'Ring twins'. Their names are derived from Roman mythology, where Apollo is the twin of Diana.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Diana Ring die in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						Diana Ring, known as Didi, served as a mentor for the District 6 female tribute, Ginnee, in the 10th Hunger Games. Her life was tragically cut short due to a bombing incident.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
While in the zoo, Ginnee and her district partner, Otto, began a funny dance, and the Ring twins got some of the audience to clap along. This led to the environment becoming more festive and social.[1]
Before the start of the Games, the tributes and their mentors were taken on a tour of the Capitol Arena. During the tour, rebel bombs exploded, sending shrapnel that killed Diana, as well as Apollo and their assigned tributes. A double funeral was held the following day.[2]

Etymology[]
Diana was the Roman virgin goddess of the hunt, wild animals, fertility, and the moon. She was the twin sister of the god Apollo.

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






