

Dill


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12-18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 11



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Luna Steeples







""She's his district partner," said Lysistrata. "And she's almost dead now. Tuberculosis, probably." That quieted people down, as a bad strain of the stuff still cropped up around the Capitol, where it was barely managed as a chronic condition, let alone cured. In the districts, of course, it was a death sentence."
—Lysistrata Vickers discussing Dill's condition.
Dill was the female tribute from District 11 in the 10th Hunger Games. Her mentor was Felix Ravinstill.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death

1.1.1 Film adaptation




2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 Gallery
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was Dill's mentor in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Dill, the female tribute from District 11, was mentored by Felix Ravinstill, a high-achieving senior from the Capitol's Academy. Dill's ill health posed challenges for Felix in promoting her during the Games' interviews.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What district did Dill represent in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Dill served as the female tribute for District 11. She was selected during the Reaping and subsequently taken to the Capitol. Felix Ravinstill was her mentor during this period.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How was Dill transported to the Capitol for the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Dill, the female tribute from District 11, was moved to the Capitol using a cargo train. She was initially placed in a grimy cattle car, then shifted to a cage at the Capitol Zoo. The Capitol operates a rapid train system, capable of traversing the distance from District 12 to the Capitol within a day.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is known about Dill's life in District 11 before the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Dill, a female tribute from District 11 in the 10th Hunger Games, grew up in an impoverished and repressed environment. Her district was heavily policed, with strict local governance and harsh Peacekeepers. Despite agriculture being the district's industry, most produce was sent to the Capitol.
					
					
						Provided by: Community
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Dill coughing at the reaping. 		 	 
Dill grew up in District 11 and became her district's female tribute in the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1] Along with the other tributes, Dill was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car, then transferred into a truck.[2]
There, she told Coriolanus Snow, the mentor of District 12 tribute Lucy Gray Baird, that Reaper, her district partner, had once killed a Peacekeeper. In response, Reaper told her to shut it, but she asked who cared now. When Lucy Gray stopped the other tributes from attacking Snow, saying that he was her mentor, Dill asked "How come you get a mender?" When Snow said that they each got one, Dill asked where they were and why they hadn't come. Lucy Gray replied that they just weren't as inspired. The tributes were then dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2]
That evening, Snow discovered fellow mentor Sejanus Plinth at the zoo, apparently trying to coax Dill to take a sandwich. He wondered why Plinth would do this when she wasn't even his tribute.[3]
During the interviews for the Games, Felix Ravinstill, her assigned mentor, tried to make an impression with her, but she was so sickly that her coughs were barely audible.[4]

Death[]
On the first day of the Hunger Games, Reaper could seen be carrying Dill, who was on the verge of death, out of a tunnel and onto a sunny spot of a piece of charred wood. She was also shivering despite the heat. Her mentor was surprised she even made it that long, as she was likely suffering from tuberculosis. She received two bottles of water by sponsors, but did not even acknowledge them. Treech came later and quickly stole them. As the day ended, Dill's body convulsed and violently coughed up blood. Blood soaked the filthy dress that she wore.[5]

Film adaptation[]
When the gong rang, she began to move around until Reaper appeared and protected her from an attack by Circ. Until the center of the arena was vacated, she and Reaper remained there, watching everything unfold. Then they decided to hide in the tunnels until the next day, when Dill emerged and unknowingly drank from a bottle of water that Lucy Gray had poisoned. Lucy Gray watched from behind a vent as Dill collapsed, horrified because her intended target had been Coral. Dill placed 7th overall.[6] Dill's fate replaced that of Wovey's in the book.[7]

Physical description[]
When Coriolanus Snow first saw Dill on the train platform, he described Reaper, her district partner, first, to be "a tall boy with dark brown skin". He then described Dill as "a girl with similar coloring but a skeletal frame and a hacking cough."[2]
In the arena, Dill seemed to have shrunk due to illness. Her body was curled in the fetal position and she wore a filthy dress that became soaked with blood upon her death.[5]

Etymology[]
Dill may be named after the dill herb.

Trivia[]
Dill had some sort of mutual bond with her fellow District 11 tribute, Reaper. On the first day of the Games, before Dill died, Reaper carried Dill out of the tunnel and made a lackluster attempt to comfort her. This is a vaguely similar relationship as that of Thresh and Rue from the 74th Hunger Games.
Gallery[]
Dill's face on the monitors.Concept art of Reaper and Dill's costumes.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 5

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ 5.0 5.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





