

District 2 male victor

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Victor



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 2



	
		Fate
	
	Presumed deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Kurt Bonatz[1]





The unknown District 2 male was the victor of an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death


2 Trivia
3 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What Hunger Games did the unknown District 2 male victor win?
						
				
				
					
						An unidentified male from District 2 emerged victorious in an unspecified Hunger Games edition. Additionally, another male from the same district claimed victory in the 73rd Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Was the District 2 male victor forced to compete in the third Quarter Quell?
						
				
				
					
						President Coriolanus Snow declared that the third Quarter Quell tributes would be selected from the pool of victors. The District 2 male victor attended the reaping for the 75th Hunger Games, but it's unclear if he was chosen. Brutus volunteered for participation.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who volunteered to participate in the 75th Hunger Games from District 2?
						
				
				
					
						Brutus, the male victor from District 2, volunteered for the 75th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of the reaping in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The Hunger Games' reaping is an annual lottery in each district, selecting a boy and a girl, aged 12-18, to participate as tributes. This event, devised by the Capitol, serves as a reminder of its power and a punishment for past rebellions. Additionally, the reaping allows the Capitol to keep track of the population.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was President Coriolanus Snow in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Coriolanus Snow, a key figure in the Hunger Games trilogy, was the influential and ruthless President of Panem, a totalitarian regime. He used poison to gain power, consuming it himself to avert suspicion, then taking an antidote. This caused mouth sores, which he hid with rose perfume. Born into the affluent Snow family, his family's fortunes had dwindled by his 18th year.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Years after his initial victory, President Coriolanus Snow announced that tributes for the third Quarter Quell would be reaped from the existing pool of victors, forcing them to compete in the Games regardless of age. As a result, this victor was present at District 2's reaping for the 75th Hunger Games.[2] It is unknown whether or not this man was reaped, but Brutus ultimately volunteered to participate.[3]

Death[]
At the end of the Second Rebellion, he was not present at a meeting of the seven surviving victors, so he presumably died in the Victors' Purge.[4]

Trivia[]
Although this character was never seen in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, actors Kurt Bonatz, Berglind Jonsdottir, and Abigail Jackson all played past victors from District 2.[1]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1951264/fullcredits

↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 26





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





