

District 7 stylist


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Stylist



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire





The District 7 stylist was responsible for styling District 7's tributes for forty years.[1]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Career
1.2 75th Hunger Games
1.3 Death


2 Trivia
3 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					How long did the District 7 stylist work in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						The District 7 stylist served in the Capitol for forty years, starting around the 35th Hunger Games until the Games ended.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did District 7 tributes dress as trees in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the 74th Hunger Games, District 7 tributes wore paper costumes resembling origami, symbolizing their district's focus on lumber and paper production. Despite Johanna Mason's claim of a 40-year tradition of dressing as trees, the film showed a different approach.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					When did the District 7 stylist likely start her career?
						
				
				
					
						The District 7 stylist likely started her career around the 35th Hunger Games, continuing for forty years until the Games ended.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Johanna Mason's opinion of the District 7 stylist?
						
				
				
					
						Johanna Mason had a negative opinion of the District 7 stylist, calling her "the biggest idiot in the Capitol" for dressing tributes as trees. She also expressed a desire to "put [her] axe in her face."
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did Johanna Mason want to put an axe in the stylist's face?
						
				
				
					
						Johanna Mason expressed a desire to put an axe in the District 7 stylist's face due to frustration with being dressed as a tree, a costume used for decades for District 7 tributes. This lack of creativity likely fueled her anger.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Behind the scenes photo by costume designer Trish Summerville 		 	 
Career[]
Under her, District 7's tributes were all dressed as trees in every Tribute Parade, for which Johanna Mason angrily described her as being "the biggest idiot in the Capitol".[1] In the movie, Johanna even said she'd "love to put [her] axe in her face."[2]
Assuming her time as District 7's stylist was all consecutive, her career would have begun around the 35th Hunger Games. She would remain with the district for forty years until the Games were abolished. As a result, she likely styled Johanna in both the 71st and 75th Hunger Games. It's also possible that she was a stylist to Blight in his first Games, along with either the District 7 male or District 7 female during the 74th Hunger Games.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The stylist adjusting Johanna's dress 		 	 
75th Hunger Games[]
In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, she briefly appeared backstage during the interviews, kneeling beside Johanna to adjust her dress. The stylist wore a full-body, mini check-patterned jumpsuit, covering her face with a similarly patterned mask that only had holes for her eyes and mouth. The ensemble also had matching boots, as well as a cone-shaped hat, and round flaps on either side of her head to mimic ears.[2][3]

Death[]
All stylists from the third Quarter Quell died during the Second Rebellion, but it is unclear which side was responsible or through what means this was carried out.[4]

Trivia[]
Costume designer Trish Summerville identified the outfit as belonging to Johanna's stylist, and she described it as being a tribute to Jean Paul Gaultier.[3]
Capitol Couture described this outfit as instead belonging to an Avox.[5]
In The Hunger Games film, the District 7 tributes were shown at the parade wearing fan-like origami paper headdresses and paper clothes rather than tree costumes.[6]
Considering the length of her time as a stylist, it's possible that she styled tributes from District 7 in two different Quarter Quells: the 50th Hunger Games and the 75th Hunger Games.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ 3.0 3.1 https://twitter.com/MzTSummerville/status/410194963633147904/

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 26

↑ Victor Style: Authentic or Just Attitude? - Capitol Couture

↑ The Hunger Games (film)






