

District 5 male (75th HG)


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15-18 (at victory)40s (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	VictorMentorTribute (75th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 5



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	James Logan







"The male tribute from District 5 is vomiting wine on the sword-fighting floor."
—Katniss Everdeen describing the District 5 male during training.[src]
This unnamed district 5 victor was the male tribute from District 5 in the 75th Hunger Games. He was also the victor of an unspecified Hunger Games, likely between the early 40s to early 50s.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Training
1.1.2 Interview
1.1.3 Death




2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 References



Biography[]
It is unknown when or how he won his first Games, but like Chaff and Haymitch Abernathy, he turned to alcohol to cope with his trauma in the aftermath.[2]

75th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 5 male vomiting. 		 	 
Training[]
During training, the District 5 male threw up wine on the sword-fighting floor.[2]

Interview[]
He wore a black striped suit during interviews.[3] Afterwards, he joined hands with the other victors in a display of rebellion against the Capitol.[4]

Death[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 5 male's death. 		 	 The District 5 male was the third tribute to make it to the Cornucopia during the bloodbath, arriving after Katniss Everdeen and Finnick Odair. Finnick told Katniss to duck and tossed his trident over her head, impaling the District 5 male behind her. He was the first known casualty that year, placing 24th.[5][3]
Trivia[]
He plays the same role as the District 9 male in the previous Hunger Games.
Namely, he is the only bloodbath death shown in the books and among the only ones to directly engage in Katniss.
Gallery[]
Brutus training while the District 5 male recovers from a hangover.Districts 4, 5 and 6 observe Beetee leave.The District 5 male during training.District 5 male at the interviews.Katniss observes Brutus and the District 5 male on their pedestals.Behind the scenes image of James Logan in his interview outfit.
References[]


↑ The Hunger Games: The Exhibition

↑ 2.0 2.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 19





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





