

District 5


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Industry
	
	Power



	
		Victors
	
	Porter Millicent TrippFemale VictorMale Victor



	
		Population
	
	134,345



	
		Tesserae
	
	2,881 (film canon)[citation needed]



	
		Color
	
	 Slate Purple  (10th HG) Orange  (50th HG)
 Ripe Eggplant Brown  (74th HG)



	
		Present-day location
	
	Arizona, Utah, Nevada, New Mexico, Sonora





"Electric, solar, and nuclear - District 5 harnesses the energy of the earth and the sky in order to power our great nation."
—Description from The Hunger Games: Tribute Guide[src]
District 5 is one of the thirteen districts of Panem. Its main industry is power and utility, and the district is responsible for generating the power of the entire nation.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Dark Days
1.2 50th Hunger Games
1.3 Second Rebellion


2 Known tributes

2.1 Tributes
2.2 Victors


3 Location and geography
4 Trivia
5 References



History[]
Dark Days[]
Rebel interference in District 5 caused frequent blackouts in the Capitol. The city's surveillance system ran on electricity, so these measures rendered air raid sirens unreliable, catching citizens off guard and forcing them to shelter in place.[1]

50th Hunger Games[]
District 5 was the only non-Career district that chose not to partner with the newly formed alliance known as the Newcomers during the Second Quarter Quell, instead forming an alliance with the Careers.[2] Two of the tributes died in the Cornucopia bloodbath[3] and the other two died in the volcanic eruption on the fourth day.[4]

Second Rebellion[]
District 5 rebels bombed a hydroelectric dam, causing a massive power outage in the Capitol. This weakened their ability to broadcast propaganda and allowed rebel forces to infiltrate the city and rescue three captive Hunger Games victors.[5]

Known tributes[]
Tributes[]
Hy - Male tribute in the 10th Hunger Games. Succumbed to asthma complications the night before the Games began. Placed 16th.[6]
Sol - Female tribute in the 10th Hunger Games. Speared in the throat by Coral's trident. Placed 12th.[7]
Unnamed female tribute - bled to death after her face was ripped off by weasel mutts "a few years" before the Second Quarter Quell.[8]
Hychel - Male tribute in the 50th Hunger Games, part of the Career Pack. Died on either the first day or from the volcanic eruption on the fourth day.
Anion - Female tribute in the 50th Hunger Games, part of the Career Pack. Died on either the first day or from the volcanic eruption on the fourth day.
Fisser - Male tribute in the 50th Hunger Games, part of the Career Pack. Died on either the first day or from the volcanic eruption on the fourth day.
Potena - Female tribute in the 50th Hunger Games, part of the Career Pack. Died on either the first day or from the volcanic eruption on the fourth day.
Foxface - Female tribute in the 74th Hunger Games. Mistakenly consumed poisonous nightlock berries on day 16. She placed 4th in the book[9] and 5th in the movie.[10]
District 5 male (74th HG) - Died on the first day in the Cornucopia bloodbath.[11]
Victors[]
Porter Millicent Tripp - Victor of the 38th Hunger Games, per Capitol Couture.[12]
District 5 female (75th HG) - Killed by a wave in the ten o'clock sector of the clock arena.[13][14]
District 5 male (75th HG) - Stabbed in the chest by Finnick Odair with a trident in the bloodbath, placing 24th.[15]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The dam being bombed by the rebels 		 	 
Location and geography[]
According to the map of Panem featured in The Hunger Games Adventures, District 5 is located directly southwest of the Capitol, primarily centered in the state of Arizona and southern Utah. This geographical location makes sense, as it would have to be located in close proximity to meet the power needs of the city. Being located around the Colorado River, which in the modern day is dammed by a number of hydroelectric dams, this directly ties in to its industry of power generation (such as the dam destroyed during the Second Rebellion) and further supports its location. This also explains how District 12, which lies in the Appalachian Mountains in eastern Panem, does not have enough electricity to continually light their homes or power the electric fence which surrounds the district. District 5 borders District 4 (to the northeast), District 1 (to the north), The Capitol (to the northwest), District 2 (to the east), and District 10 (to the southeast).

Trivia[]
The district's industry, along with District 6, are the last ones to be revealed. Nowhere in the original trilogy books suggest that District 5 provides power and utilities to the nation, unlike District 9 being the grain district. They are only revealed at the time the film adaptation of The Hunger Games has been announced. The hydroelectric dam attack in District 5 is a new addition to the Second Rebellion.
Districts 1, 2, 5, 9, and 10 were not involved in the rebel plot during the third Quarter Quell.[16]
District 1, District 5, and District 9 are the only districts without a known rebel.
District 5 is the only non-Career district who allied with the Careers rather than the Newcomers during the 50th Hunger Games. These four tributes fell victim to the Cornucopia bloodbath and a volcano eruption.
This makes District 5 the only non-Career district to have never been involved in an in-game rebel plot, whether directly or indirectly, within the entire continuity.
In the last two Hunger Games, both males were killed in the bloodbath[11][15] but both females survived, only to die later to one of the arena's dangers— the opposite of District 10.
Sol from the 10th Hunger Games[7] and the male from the 75th[15] were both killed by a District 4 tribute with a trident.
A solar power plant, Coriolanus 9, is located in the heart of District 5, named after Coriolanus Snow.[17]
District 5 is possibly one of the wealthier districts, such as District 1 or District 2 due to the low amount of residents who take tesserae. This may also attribute to the theory of District 5 not being as impoverished as outlying districts (10, 11 and 12).
District 5 was the 5th - 10th district to pry from Capitol rule.
According to the Capitol.PN, District 5 has 15 power plants in operation with a population of 134,345, making it the fifth largest district, in terms of population.
According to the Capitol.PN, District 5 claims 2,881 in tesserae, making it the third richest district. It is, in fact, richer than District 4, making it the only non-Career district to be wealthier than a Career district and the wealthiest non-Career district.
If the population is 134,345 and they claim 2,881 tesserae, it would equal to 0.021 tesserae per person, making it the 2nd richest district.
This would also make District 5 wealthier than District 1, another Career district, in terms of tesserae per capita.
It is considered a wealthy district.
Based on the arena wear for the 74th Hunger Games, the district's color seems to be ripe eggplant brown (#492d35 –    ).[18]
Although the final cut of The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes changed all the District banner colors to red, pre-release materials show District 5's color for the 10th Hunger Games appears to be slate purple (#6A5ACD-    ).[19]
The arena wear for the 50th Hunger Games was orange (FF6700 -    ).
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 11

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 16

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 20

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1. This is a new addition, since the industry was completely unknwon prior to the first film.

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ 7.0 7.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 3

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 23

↑ The Hunger Games (film)

↑ 11.0 11.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 11

↑ https://capitolcouture.tumblr.com/post/132880155472/

↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 22

↑ 15.0 15.1 15.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 19

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 27

↑ https://youtu.be/Rwa26CXG1fc

↑ File:Anatomy of an arena costume.jpg

↑ File:TBOSASScreensLeft.jpg





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





