

District 3 female (74th HG)


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	13 (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute



	
		Home
	
	District 3



	
		Weapon
	
	Unknown



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female



	
		Height
	
	5'9 (film)[1]




	Appearances


	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games (film)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Kalia Prescott





The District 3 female was the female tribute from District 3 who participated in 74th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Tribute Parade
1.1.2 Training
1.1.3 Interviews
1.1.4 Cornucopia bloodbath




2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the District 3 female's role in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The District 3 female participated in the 74th Hunger Games as a tribute from District 3. Her specific actions during the games are not detailed, but she would have been involved in the Tribute Parade, training, and the Cornucopia bloodbath.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What kind of training advice did Atala give to the District 3 female in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, Atala advised the District 3 female and other tributes to prioritize survival skills. She highlighted that natural causes like infection, dehydration, and exposure could be as deadly as armed conflict, emphasizing the importance of survival skills alongside weapon training.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the District 3 female doing in the deleted scene of the Hunger Games movie?
						
				
				
					
						During a deleted scene of the Hunger Games film, the District 3 female, a participant in the 74th Hunger Games, has an accident on the gauntlets, resulting in a split lip and bleeding. The Career tributes mock her, and the District 3 boy, despite his concern, joins in the laughter to secure his place in the Career alliance.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What industry does the District 3 female's outfit in the Hunger Games represent?
						
				
				
					
						The outfit of the District 3 female in the 74th Hunger Games symbolizes the district's industry, which is technology and electronics manufacture. The outfit's design includes an illumination system, causing it to glow as if covered in live embers.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
74th Hunger Games[]
Tribute Parade[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 3 tributes in their parade costumes. 		 	 
In the movie, she was first seen in the chariot rides, waving to the crowds along with her district partner. They wore silver outfits that represented the intricate inner working of electronic devices, the industry of their district.[2]

Training[]
In the film, she was listening to Atala, who was giving the tributes training advice.[2] In a deleted scene of the movie, she was running on the gauntlets during training, and was knocked off. As a result, she split her lip. Glimmer, Marvel, Clove, and Cato laughed at her, and Glimmer elbowed her district partner, who laughed as well.

Interviews[]
In the film, she was the first tribute omitted from the interview queue. She would have lined up between Cato and her district partner.

Cornucopia bloodbath[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 3 female's corpse. 		 	 
The District 3 female was killed in the initial Cornucopia bloodbath.[3] She was stationed to the right of the District 10 male. In the film, she ran for supplies at the Cornucopia. She grabs a backpack, but the District 4 female confronts her and amputates her leg with a sword, injuring her. The District 5 male spots her on the ground and slashes her throat with a sickle, effectively killing her. Her face was the first seen by Katniss on the first night of the Games.[2]

Trivia[]
In the film, her odds of winning were 30–1, and she was the tallest female tribute at 5'9". She has the second lowest known odds of winning in the morning line odds, after Rue. [1]
She was the first tribute to be played by a stunt actor. Stunt actors are usually cast specifically for tributes who fell during the initial bloodbath.
In the arena, she wore a mustard yellow jacket.
The District 3 female appeared in the special features scenes of the DVD.
She was the 3rd dead, but, when the District 8 female was killed, on the scoreboard behind Caesar it can be seen that she was the 11th dead.
Her death is confirmed when it is shown in the special features of the DVD.
She had her own page (112) in The World of the Hunger Games book, in which she was featured in the Training section. 
By closely observing the trailer of The Hunger Games: Catching Fire it can be noted that while visiting District 3 on Katniss' and Peeta's Victory Tour that three young men and an older man are standing on the pedestal, preserved for the family members of a death tribute. The man could possibly be her father, meaning the District 3 female had a father, three siblings and no mother.
She was one of the tributes who had both their portrait and corpse shown.
Gallery[]
In the Training CenterDistrict 3 female's lip having split in trainingDistrict 3 female's photo shown in the skyTribute Identification Card
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 File:Statsreference.png

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Hunger Games film

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 11






