

District 5 female (75th HG)


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15-18 (at victory)30s (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	VictorMentorTribute (75th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	Victors Village in District 5



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Ivette Li-Sanchez







"A cannon fires. We see the hovercraft appear over the area where the wave began and pluck a body from the trees."
—Katniss Everdeen on the District 5 female's death.[src]
The District 5 female was the female tribute who participated in the 75th Hunger Games. She was also the victor of an unspecified Hunger Games, likely somewhere between the early-to-late 50s.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Interview
1.1.2 Games




2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What outfit did the District 5 female wear during her interview for the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During her interview for the 75th Hunger Games, the District 5 female tribute was attired in a blue dress that reached her knees. She paired this with a short-sleeved black sweater and a prominent belt.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did the District 5 female fare in the initial Cornucopia bloodbath during the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games, the District 5 female survived the initial Cornucopia bloodbath. She likely avoided direct confrontation, choosing to flee into the jungle. This strategy proved effective, as she outlasted her district partner.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Which Hunger Games did the District 5 female win before participating in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The female tribute from District 5, who took part in the 75th Hunger Games, had previously emerged victorious in an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games. The exact edition she won is not specified.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
75th Hunger Games[]
Interview[]
During interviews, she wore a blue, knee-length dress with a black, short-sleeved, sweater and a large belt.[2] Afterwards, she joined hands with the other victors in a display of rebellion against the Capitol.[3]

Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 5 female's portrait. 		 	 
The District 5 female survived the initial Cornucopia bloodbath,[4] but she was among the dead tributes shown in the sky during the anthem on the second evening.[5] She either died to the arena's tidal wave at ten o'clock that morning,[6] or a large, unidentified muttation termed "the beast" that tore its victim apart around six o'clock that evening.[5] In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, her scream could be heard as she was killed by the tidal wave, placing 13th out of 24.[2]

Trivia[]
She and the District 10 male were the only tributes whose cause of death was unaccounted for on the second day in the novel, so fans commonly presume that she died to the wave in the novel as well. This would make the District 10 male the victim of the beast.
She is the last District 5 Tribute to die in the Hunger Games.
Gallery[]
The District 5 female during the interviews.Behind the scenes image of Ivette Li-Sanchez in her interview outfit.Behind the scenes image of Ivette Li-Sanchez in her interview outfit.
References[]


↑ The Hunger Games: The Exhibition

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 20

↑ 5.0 5.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 24

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 22





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





