

District 10 female (75th HG)


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15-18 (at victory)



	
		Occupation
	
	VictorTribute (75th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 10



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Tiffany Waxler







"But what are the livestock keepers from District 10, who are dressed as cows, doing with flaming belts? Broiling themselves? Pathetic."
—Katniss Everdeen on the District 10 Tribute Parade costumes.[src]
The District 10 female was the female tribute from District 10 who participated in the 75th Hunger Games. She was also the victor of an unspecified Hunger Games, likely somewhere between the mid 50s and early 60s.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Chariot rides
1.1.2 Training


1.2 Interviews

1.2.1 Death




2 Gallery
3 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the District 10 female's costume during the 75th Hunger Games Tribute Parade?
						
				
				
					
						The District 10 female tribute in the 75th Hunger Games wore a costume symbolizing livestock herders during the Tribute Parade. Her attire included a golden cowboy hat, shirt, and pants, which she wore alongside her district partner.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was the District 10 female tribute in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The female tribute from District 10 in the 75th Hunger Games was a previous victor of an unspecified Hunger Games. She lived in the Victors' Village in District 10. In the Tribute Parade of the 75th Hunger Games, she and the District 10 male tribute wore costumes resembling cows, a fact noted by Katniss Everdeen.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What Hunger Games did the District 10 female win?
						
				
				
					
						The District 10 female, a participant in the 75th Hunger Games, emerged victorious in an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games. The specific Games she won is not detailed.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the significance of the District 10 tributes' flaming belts?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games, the District 10 tributes, including the District 10 female, sported flaming belts as part of their chariot costumes. These belts possibly utilized the same technology Cinna and Portia used previously. Given the arena's substantial water portion, the belts likely functioned as flotation devices, ensuring each tribute's survival opportunity.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Katniss Everdeen's opinion on the District 10 tributes' costumes?
						
				
				
					
						Katniss Everdeen viewed the District 10 tributes' costumes in the 75th Hunger Games as lacking creativity and appeal. She referred to their outfits, designed to symbolize their district's industry, as 'pathetic'.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
75th Hunger Games[]
Chariot rides[]
During the Tribute Parade, she and the District 10 male were dressed up as cows with flaming belts. Katniss Everdeen assumed that this was an attempt to copy Cinna and Portia's success with illuminated costumes the previous year.[1]

Training[]
In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, while the tributes were waiting to show their skills to the Gamemakers, she could be seen talking to the District 9 female and her district partner.[2] 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 10 female's death portrait. 		 	 
Interviews[]
She wore a dark green leather suit during interviews.[2] Afterwards, she joined hands with the other victors in a display of rebellion against the Capitol.[3]

Death[]
The District 10 female was killed in the initial Cornucopia bloodbath.[4] In the film, her pedestal was stationed next to Gloss,[2] and she was killed by Enobaria.[citation needed]

Gallery[]
Chariot costume shoulder piece presumably worn by the District 10 femaleThe District 10 female in her Tribute Parade costume.The District 10 female during training.The District 9 and 10 tributes during training.District 10 female's interview outfitThe District 10 female during the interviews.The District 10 tributes holding hands with the other victors
References[]


↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 20





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





