

District 10 male (75th HG)


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15-18 (at victory)



	
		Occupation
	
	VictorTribute (75th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 10



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Jackson Spidell







"We watch as the claw dips down five different times to retrieve the pieces of one body, torn apart. It’s impossible to tell who it was."
—Katniss Everdeen describing the District 10 male's death.[src]
The District 10 male was the male tribute from District 10 who participated in the 75th Hunger Games. He was also the victor of an unspecified Hunger Games. He appears to have been quite young, so it can be presumed he won somewhere in the 60s.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Chariot rides
1.1.2 Training
1.1.3 Interview
1.1.4 Death




2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the District 10 male's costume during the Tribute Parade in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The District 10 male, a participant in the 75th Hunger Games, wore a costume for the Tribute Parade that was negatively commented on by Katniss Everdeen. The exact design of the costume is not specified.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Which Hunger Games did the District 10 male win?
						
				
				
					
						The District 10 male, who took part in the 75th Hunger Games, emerged victorious in an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games. The exact edition he won is not disclosed.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did the District 10 male tribute's costume attempt to copy Cinna and Portia's success?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games, the District 10 male tribute and his partner were costumed as cows with flaming belts for the Tribute Parade. This was seen as an effort to replicate the triumph of Cinna and Portia's previous year's costumes. Cinna and Portia had designed outfits for Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark that symbolized burning coal, using synthetic fire, which made them unforgettable.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What role did the District 10 male play in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The District 10 male, a previous victor, participated as a tribute in the 75th Hunger Games. His death was notably brutal, with his body being torn apart. During the Tribute Parade, he and his female counterpart from District 10 wore chariot costumes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the significance of the flaming belts on the District 10 tributes' costumes?
						
				
				
					
						The District 10 tributes' flaming belts in the 75th Hunger Games, possibly using technology from Cinna and Portia, symbolized their district's industry. Despite this, Katniss Everdeen viewed the belts as a poor self-broiling display.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
75th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 10 Male during training. 		 	 
Chariot rides[]
During the Tribute Parade, he and the District 10 female were dressed up as cows with flaming belts. Katniss Everdeen assumed that this was an attempt to copy Cinna and Portia's success with illuminated costumes the previous year.[1]

Training[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 10 tributes holding hands with the other victors 		 	 
In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, while the tributes were waiting to show their skills to the Gamemakers, he could be seen talking to the District 9 female and his district partner.[2]

Interview[]
During interviews, he wore a dark brown suit with long horns on a harness on his chest.[2] Afterwards, he joined hands with the other victors in a display of rebellion against the Capitol.[3]

Death[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 10 male fighting with Peeta in the water. 		 	 
In the Catching Fire novel, he survived the Cornucopia bloodbath,[4] but in the film, the District 10 male fought Peeta Mellark underwater and drowned.[2]
In the novel, he was among the dead tributes shown in the sky during the anthem on the second evening of the Games.[5] He either died to the tidal wave at ten o'clock that morning,[6] or a large, unidentified muttation termed "the beast" that tore its victim apart around six o'clock that evening.[5]

Trivia[]
He and the District 10 male from the 74th Hunger Games are similar, as they both outlived their female counterpart and were killed by an unknown source. They both also died after a District 1 female tribute was killed.
His portrait in the sky is not seen on any day during the film.
In the film, the District 5 female could be heard screaming as she was killed by the arena's tidal wave sector.[2] She and the District 10 male were the only tributes whose cause of death was unaccounted for that day in the novel, so fans commonly presume that she died to the wave in the novel as well. This would make the District 10 male the victim of the beast.
Gallery[]
The District 10 male in his Tribute Parade costume.District 10 male speaking with the District 9 female during training.The District 9 and 10 tributes in training.Interview outfit chest piece worn by the District 10 male.[7]The District 10 male during the interviews.The District 10 male's corpse
References[]


↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 20

↑ 5.0 5.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 24

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 22

↑ This piece was erroneously listed as part of his Tribute Parade costume.





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





