

District 8 hospital


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Location
	
	District 8


	Appearances


	
		Appearances
	
	Mockingjay







"It's a scene from my old kitchen, where my mother treated the dying, multiplied by ten, by fifty, by a hundred."
—Katniss Everdeen entering the makeshift hospital[src]
The District 8 hospital was a warehouse turned into a makeshift hospital after the initial bombing of District 8 during the Second Rebellion.[1]

Contents

1 History
2 Description
3 Trivia
4 References



History[]
Following the bombing, hundreds of people carted the wounded to the warehouse. Although districts ordinarily left people to die at home, the bombing had destroyed many housing units, leaving families with no other choice than to take patients to the makeshift hospital. A mass grave had been started a few blocks west.[1]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Patients giving Katniss the three-finger salute 		 	 
The afternoon of the bombing, Katniss Everdeen was sent from District 13 via hovercraft along with Gale Hawthorne, Boggs, two other soldiers, and a TV crew. Another hovercraft carrying medical supplies and medics followed. Commander Paylor greeted the team and gestured them inside. Katniss was initially repulsed by the conditions of the hospital, but gained confidence after being greeted by Eddy and his sister. She interacted with the wounded and allowed them to touch her. Many reassured her about Peeta Mellark, and people were devastated upon hearing that Katniss had "lost the baby" she had supposedly been carrying.[1] In the film, patients gave her the three-finger salute after she told them she would fight.[2]
However, once Katniss and the crew exited, Boggs received news of incoming bombers targeting the hospital. Although Katniss, Gale, and other soldiers attempted to fend them off, the new wave of bombs collapsed the hospital roof and set the building on fire. A group of rescuers tried to clear a path, but the patients were trapped and killed by falling debris, flames, and smoke asphyxiation. According to Gale, President Snow had found the patients "expendable" and wanted to scare others off from seeking help. He aired the bombing live as a way of sending a message. In response, Katniss recorded a propo to warn Snow and encourage the rebels to fight back.[1]
In the film, Antonius showed Snow camera footage of Katniss at the hospital and suggested sending hovercraft to target her. Snow ordered him to kill the wounded despite Egeria's attempts to protest. He argued that everyone in the hospital had committed treason by associating with Katniss.[2]

Description[]

"The drone of black flies, the moaning of people in pain, and the sobs of their attending loved ones have combined into a wrenching chorus."
—The atmosphere of the hospital[src]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The interior of the hospital 		 	 
The warehouse had the letter H sloppily painted above the entrance. An industrial curtain hung the length of the interior, forming a corridor where corpses were placed with cloths covering their faces. Rows of wounded lay behind the curtain on cots, pallets, and the floor. Black flies were prevalent, and the hospital smelled of soiled linen, rotting flesh, and vomit. Open skylights did nothing to ease the smell, nor did the heat.[1]

Trivia[]
The scenes inside the hospital were filmed in Martha Mills, a textile factory in Thomaston, Georgia that was known for producing tire fabric. The scenes outside the hospital were filmed at the Rüdersdorf chemical plant in Germany.[3]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Mockingjay, Chapter 7

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1

↑ https://movie-locations.com/movies/h/Hunger-Games-Mockingjay-Part-1.php






