

District 8


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Industry
	
	Textiles



	
		Victors
	
	WoofCeceliaImplied Female Victor(s)



	
		Rebels
	
	Bonnie
Cecelia
Commander Paylor
Eddy
Eddy's sister
Twill
Woof



	
		Population
	
	122,134



	
		Tesserae
	
	69,892



	
		Color
	
	 Yellow Green  (10th HG)
 Peach  (50th HG)
 Dark Buff Leather Brown  (74th HG)



	
		Present-day location
	
	Illinois, Kansas, Missouri, Tennessee, Arkansas, Kentucky, Oklahoma





"From the simple, lovely fabrics of the districts to the brocades favoured in the Capitol, District 8 makes it all."
—Description from The Hunger Games: Tribute Guide[src]
District 8 is one of the thirteen districts of Panem. Its main industry is textile production. They have at least one factory that is used for making Peacekeeper uniforms.[1]

Contents

1 History

1.1 Relationship with the Hunger Games

1.1.1 Aftermath of the 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1.1 Uprising of District 8

1.1.1.1.1 Refugees




1.1.2 75th Hunger Games


1.2 Second Rebellion

1.2.1 Bombing of District 8


1.3 Reconstruction


2 Culture
3 Known tributes

3.1 Tributes
3.2 Victors


4 Location and geography
5 Trivia
6 References



History[]
Relationship with the Hunger Games[]
Due to District 8's urban environment, its people knew very little of the natural world, putting its tributes at a serious disadvantage in outdoor arenas.[1]

Aftermath of the 74th Hunger Games[]
During the Victory Tour, the people of Districts 3, 4, and 8 expressed "genuine elation" at the sight of Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark, "and under the elation, fury," crying out for vengeance.[2]

Uprising of District 8[]
Main article: Uprising of District 8
District 8 was the first known district to carry out a full-scale uprising against the Capitol since the Dark Days. The plan was enacted the night of Katniss and Peeta's televised proposal in the Capitol, but despite its initial success, the movement was put down within forty-eight hours. After a weeklong lockdown, regular work operations resumed, and the Capitol bombed the factory where plans for the uprising began.[1]

Refugees[]
A District 8 schoolteacher, Twill, had been planning to escape the district with her husband in Peacekeepers' uniforms she took from the factory where she worked. She and one of her students, Bonnie, were late coming to the factory one day after school, and they narrowly avoided being caught in the factory bombing. With their families dead, and being presumed dead themselves, they escaped in the Peacekeepers' uniforms with a stolen rifle. They eventually made it to the woods outside District 12 on their way to District 13. After Katniss stumbled upon the two of them at the lake, she shared a meal with them, and they told her what had transpired.[1]

75th Hunger Games[]
In the third Quarter Quell, the tributes from Districts 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 11 were all involved in a rebel plan to protect Katniss and break out of the 75th Hunger Games arena.[3]

Second Rebellion[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss during her visit to District 8, shortly before the hospital bombing. 		 	 
Bombing of District 8[]
Main article: Bombing of District 8
About a month into the war, District 8 was heavily bombed one morning, and later that same day, a second wave of Capitol bombers came in to kill the patients and medics at a field hospital.[4]

Reconstruction[]
Following the execution of President Snow and assassination of President Coin, an emergency election was held, and District 8's Commander Paylor became the new President of Panem.[5]

Culture[]
When explaining her background to Katniss, Twill mentions that she put in a four-hour shift at a Peacekeeper uniform factory after her full-time job as a teacher.[1] This could indicate either that all citizens are required to participate in the industry— since Bonnie, a child, also worked a four-hour shift after school— or that the average income from a single job was not enough to live on. 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			District 8 tributes, 74th Hunger Games 		 	 
Known tributes[]
Tributes[]
Bobbin - Male tribute in the 10th Hunger Games. Beaten to death with a wooden board by Coriolanus Snow. Placed 13th.[6]
Wovey - Female tribute in the 10th Hunger Games. Poisoned by Lucy Gray Baird. Placed 8th.[7]
Wefton - Male tribute in the 50th Hunger Games. Killed in the bloodbath on the first day.
Notion - Female tribute in the 50th Hunger Games. Killed in the bloodbath on the first day.
Ripman - Male tribute in the 50th Hunger Games. Killed in the bloodbath on the first day.
Alawna - Female tribute in the 50th Hunger Games. Killed in the bloodbath on the first day.
District 8 female (74th HG) - Injured by the Careers[8] and killed by Peeta Mellark on the first night/second day of the Games. She placed 13th in the book[9] and 12th in the film.[10]
District 8 male (74th HG) - Killed in the Cornucopia bloodbath.[8]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			District 8 Tributes: Woof (left) and Cecelia (right) 		 	 
Victors[]
Cecelia - Victor of an unknown Hunger Games and tribute in the 75th Hunger Games. Died in the bloodbath.[11]
Woof - Victor of an unknown Games, tribute in the 75th. Died in the bloodbath.[11]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Victory Tour train ride To District 8. 		 	 
Location and geography[]
According to the map of Panem featured in The Hunger Games Adventures, District 8's territory corresponds to a long, narrow region in the northern part of southeast North America. Its territory is primarily centered on the U.S. states of Kansas, Missouri, southern Illinois, and Tennessee. District 8 borders five other districts: District 12 (to the east and northeast), District 11 (to the south), District 2 (to the west), District 9 (to the northwest), and District 3 (to the north).

District 8 is described in The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes as the second district from the east, between Districts 12 and 6.[12] Katniss describes District 8 as "an urban place stinking of industrial fumes, the people housed in run-down tenements. Barely a blade of grass in sight."[1] 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark in District 8. 		 	 
Trivia[]
According to The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, as well as a pre-production sketch from the illustrated movie companion book, District 8 has at least six functional textile factories. Other features include a river traversed by a bridge, and a clock tower extending into the sky.
The citizens are seen to be clothed in a palette of vibrant and brighter colors than other districts, considering that District 8's primary focus is that of textile production. Their physical attire resembles that of an urban American 1960s get-up.
It was also located near a shore in the film.
During Katniss and Peeta's stop in 8 on the Victory Tour, the tributes' jackets on the holograms are maroon red, but in the previous film, they wore golden jackets.
The first official rebel propo was shot in District 8.[4]
According to the Mockingjay film, bombers from the north were being deployed from the southern border of District 11, during the time Katniss was visiting District 8 to film the first prop. This suggests that District 8 may actually be located around the deep south, specifically south of present-day Atlanta, Georgia, where District 11 is believed to be situated.
The map from The Hunger Games Adventures shows that District 8 is located in the southeast of Panem, between District 12 (to the north) and District 11 (to the south).
According to the Capitol.PN, District 8 has 43 factories in operation with a population of 122,134, making it the sixth largest district, in terms of population.
According to the Capitol.PN, District 8 claims 69,892 in tesserae, making it the fifth most impoverished district. 
If the population is 122,134 and they claim 69,892 tesserae, that would equal to 0.572 tesserae per person, making it the 7th richest district.
The inspiration for District 8 in the films came from the mill town of Lawrence, Massachusetts, which was well cemented in the textile industry at the turn of the 20th century.[13]
It is considered a lower-middle class district.
Based on the arena wear for the 74th Hunger Games, the district's color seems to be dark buff leather brown (#835c27 –    ).[14]
Although the final cut of The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes changed all the District banner colors to red, pre-release materials show District 8's color for the 10th Hunger Games appears to be yellow green (#9ACD32 -    ).[15]
The arena wear for the 50th Hunger Games was peach (FFE5B4 -    ).
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Catching Fire, Chapter 10

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 5

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 27

↑ 4.0 4.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 8

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 27

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ 8.0 8.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 11

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 12

↑ The Hunger Games (film)

↑ 11.0 11.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 20

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ The Hunger Games: The Exhibition - Walkthrough Tour of Hunger Games Exhibit at MGM Grand Las Vegas

↑ File:Anatomy of an arena costume.jpg

↑ File:TBOSASScreensRight.jpg





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





