

District 5 male


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15 (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute



	
		Home
	
	District 5



	
		Weapon
	
	Sickle (film)Arc Bladed Sword (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male



	
		Height
	
	5'7" (film)[1]




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games (film)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Chris Mark





The District 5 male was the male tribute from District 5 who participated in the 74th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Tribute Parade
1.1.2 Training
1.1.3 Interviews
1.1.4 Cornucopia bloodbath




2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the District 5 male's role in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, the District 5 male tribute, aged 15, participated representing his home district. His chosen weapons were a sickle and an arc bladed sword. However, like most participants in the Hunger Games, he met a fatal end.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What did the District 5 male's costume represent in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the Tribute Parade of the 74th Hunger Games, the male tribute from District 5, along with his fellow tribute, Foxface, donned shiny, flashy silver costumes. These costumes were representative of District 5's main export, power and electricity.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who were the other tributes in the 74th Hunger Games alongside the District 5 male?
						
				
				
					
						Alongside the District 5 male in the 74th Hunger Games were tributes such as Clove, Thresh, Rue, Glimmer, Peeta, Cato, Foxface, Katniss, Marvel, and representatives from Districts 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 10.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did the District 5 male form any alliances during the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The male tribute from District 5 in the 74th Hunger Games was observed in multiple training sequences, but there is no confirmation of him forming any alliances. He is not listed in any major alliances during these Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the reaction of the District 5 male to Peeta's performance during the training?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, the District 5 male was observed during training. Following Peeta's display of strength by throwing a medicine ball, he and the District 10 male were seen casting doubtful looks at the Career tributes. His alliance status at this point remains uncertain.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
74th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 5 male and Foxface in their parade costumes. 		 	 
Tribute Parade[]
During the Tribute Parade, he and Foxface wore shiny and flashy silver costumes that represent District 5's main export, power and electricity.

Training[]
The District 5 male was seen in several scenes in the training. During training after Peeta throws the medicine ball, he and the District 10 male are seen in the background looking doubtfully at the Career tributes. It is unknown if he made any alliances at this time.

Interviews[]
For the interviews with Caesar Flickerman, he wore a pink suit. When Foxface has her interview with Caesar Flickerman, the District 5 male's face is shown on the screen behind along with Foxface.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 5 male waiting at the interviews. 		 	 
Cornucopia bloodbath[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 5 male's corpse. 		 	 The District 5 male was killed in the initial bloodbath. He stood on the pedestal next to the District 4 male. Like the majority of the tributes, he ran for supplies. After arriving at the Cornucopia, he spots the District 3 female on the ground with a black backpack. He grabs a sickle, slashes her throat and steals her bag. At some point in the bloodbath, he and the District 10 male try to kill Cato while the District 6 male watches from behind a crate. He is about to kill the District 7 female but then, the District 7 male confronts him and knocks him down with a spear, about to kill him. Fortunately Thresh passes by; distracting the District 7 male. He crawls away, but is attacked by the District 6 male, who strangles him onto a crate. He gains advantage and hurls the District 6 male's head into the crate multiple times. He later gets into a fight with Glimmer and she kills him by stabbing him in the abdomen, causing him to cough blood on a crate and eventually die.
Trivia[]
In the film, his odds of winning were 8–1, higher than Thresh and both the male and female tributes from District 4. The betting odds board also shows he was 15 years old, and he weighed 145 pounds.[1]
In the arena, the color jacket he wore was plum red.
His death appears in the special features of the DVD.
In the movies, he was the only bloodbath casualty that killed another tribute. This is a possible back-shadowing to how District 5 was the only non-Career district that was part of the Career pack in the 50th Hunger Games and the only district within that pack to sustain casualties during that same games' bloodbath.
He was also the only unnamed tribute to kill someone, as well as the only seen unnamed tribute from District 5 that did not become a victor.
On the scoreboard, it states he only survived for only 13 seconds, but it also states his victim, the District 3 female, survived for 29 seconds, implying that the time of death for the unnamed tributes were mostly randomly given.
He was the 8th dead, but when the District 8 female was killed, you can see that he was the 5th dead on the scoreboard behind Caesar.
Alongside Thresh, he is one of the two non-Career tributes to kill another tribute in the initial bloodbath.
Gallery[]
He and the District 10 male, trying to kill CatoThe District 6 male strangles the District 5 maleThe District 5 male's picture at the boardDistrict 5 male attacking the District 3 maleDistrict 5 male's ID card
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 File:Statsreference.png






