

District 9 female


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	14 (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	TributeBaker (Facebook game)



	
		Home
	
	District 9



	
		Weapon
	
	Unknown



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female



	
		Height
	
	5'1" (film)[1]




	Appearances


	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games film



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Annie Thurman





The District 9 female was the female tribute from District 9 who participated in the 74th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Tribute Parade
1.1.2 Cornucopia bloodbath




2 Trivia
3 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the District 9 female's outfit representing in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The District 9 female's costume in the 74th Hunger Games symbolized the primary commodities of her district. It portrayed cows, trees, and bread, indicative of District 9's industry and way of life.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did the District 9 female die in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the 74th Hunger Games, the District 9 female met her end in the initial Cornucopia bloodbath. Her arena entry point was the pedestal between Finnick's and Chaff's. Although Brutus was responsible for her death, this particular scene was not included in the final film.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How old was the District 9 female during the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the 74th Hunger Games, the female tribute from District 9 was 14 years old. In the film version of 'The Hunger Games', Annie Thurman played her role.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the weight of the District 9 female in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, the weight of the District 9 female tribute was 88 pounds.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
74th Hunger Games[]
Tribute Parade[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 9 tributes in their parade costumes. 		 	 
In the film, she is first seen in the Tribute Parade with her district partner, wearing a silver studded outfit and a silver half-circle behind her (representing grain silos), and waving to the crowd.[2]

Cornucopia bloodbath[]
The District 9 female was killed in the initial Cornucopia bloodbath.[3]  Her pedestal was the farthest to the left, to the left of Thresh.

Trivia[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 9 girl's ID card 		 	 
In the film, she was 14 years old, and she weighed 88 pounds.
In the arena, she wore a bottle green jacket. This jacket was never actually produced, so it is possible that her portrait is digitally edited and colorized.
She is seen in the sky when the fallen images are shown. Her face was also the last one seen on day one as a production error.
In The Hunger Games: Training Days board game, she and her district partner, along with District 10 and 6, were not given cards or any recognition.
Since her actress is strictly an extra, the Tribute Parade is her only live-action appearance in the film. This is shared with her district partner and the District 10 female.
Even though she was never seen outside of the parade, boots for her and the District 10 female's Arena Costumes were still produced.
On the scoreboard behind Caesar and Claudius, it shows that she survived for 1 minute and 37 seconds into the bloodbath, placing 18th.
She was the 7th dead, but according to the scoreboard shown when the District 8 female was killed, she was the 3rd to die.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 File:Full stats board.png

↑ The Hunger Games film

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 11






