

District 2 male (73rd HG)


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	16[1] (73rd HG)



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor
Career Tribute



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 2



	
		Weapon
	
	Brick



	
		Fate
	
	Presumed deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games (film)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	LaDell Preston





This unnamed District 2 male was the victor of the 73rd Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 73rd Hunger Games
1.2 75th Hunger Games
1.3 Death


2 Early script
3 Physical description
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What strategy did the District 2 male use to win the 73rd Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The District 2 male tribute's winning strategy in the 73rd Hunger Games involved disarming his opponents and utilizing nearby resources. He defeated the District 10 male tribute in the final stages by beating him to death with a brick from nearby rubble.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Was the District 2 male a volunteer or reaped for the 73rd Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The male tribute from District 2 in the 73rd Hunger Games, known for producing Career Tributes, likely volunteered after receiving training. His weapon of choice was a spear, and he was the victor of these Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did the District 2 male tribute kill his final opponent in the 73rd Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The District 2 male tribute, a participant in the 73rd Hunger Games, secured his victory by overpowering his last adversary, the male tribute from District 10. He managed to disarm his opponent and used a brick from nearby rubble to beat him to death.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of District 2 in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, District 2 is a wealthy district in the Rocky Mountains, known for its stone quarries and masonry. It trains many Peacekeepers and manufactures weapons. Despite its loyalty and close ties with the Capitol, it participates in the Hunger Games. Following the First Rebellion, the Capitol shifted its military operations to District 2, making it a significant military hub.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is a Career Tribute in the context of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Career Tributes, or Careers, are participants in the Hunger Games who train from a young age to compete. They hail from wealthier districts, specifically 1, 2, and 4, where being a tribute is considered an honor. These individuals attend combat academies run by past victors until they volunteer for the Games at 18. They often form alliances, known as Career packs, to eliminate other competitors before confronting each other.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
73rd Hunger Games[]
This tribute either volunteered or was reaped for the 73rd Hunger Games. Given his district's reputation for producing Career Tributes, he was likely one of those who trained and eventually volunteered to participate.
During the Games, the District 2 male made it to the final two and used his strength to overpower the male tribute from District 10. He then beat his opponent to death with a brick from a pile of rubble, becoming that year's victor.[1]

75th Hunger Games[]
He was later spared from having to compete for a second time in the 75th Hunger Games. It is unknown whose name was chosen at the reaping, but Brutus volunteered to compete.[2]

Death[]
He was most likely killed at some point during the Second Rebellion, either by the Capitol or rebel forces during the Victors' Purge.[3]

Early script[]
In an early version of The Hunger Games film script, Gale Hawthorne told Katniss Everdeen he thought the victor would be the boy from 2. Later on, during interviews for the 74th Hunger Games, Caesar Flickerman mentioned to Cato that the 72nd and 73rd Hunger Games were both won by District 2 tributes.[4]

Physical description[]
In the film, he was portrayed by an African-American actor with short hair. In voiceover, Caesar Flickerman commented that the final fight was between two 16-year-olds.[1]

Trivia[]
His arena wear included a red jacket, which matched the film's color coding for tributes from District 2.[5]
He was the last Career to become a victor, as the 74th Hunger Games were won by District 12, and the 75th had no victor.
He was also the final victor to be crowned under normal circumstances, since the 74th Hunger Games had an unprecedented double victory.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 The Hunger Games film

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 27

↑ https://www.screenwritersnetwork.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/The-Hunger-Games-1-Script.pdf

↑ File:Anatomy of an arena costume.jpg





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





