

District 4 male victor


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Elderly



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 4



	
		Fate
	
	Presumed deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire & behind the scenes featurette[1]



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Ron Stafford





This unknown District 4 male was the victor of an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games. 

Contents

1 Biography
2 Gallery
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was the older male victor from District 4 in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						An elderly victor from District 4 in the Hunger Games won an unspecified edition of the games. He is presumed deceased and lived in the Victors' Village in District 4. Ron Stafford portrayed this character in the film adaptation. This victor was present at the third Quarter Quell reaping when he was approximately 70 years old.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the fate of the District 4 older male victor during the third Quarter Quell?
						
				
				
					
						The elder victor from District 4 attended the third Quarter Quell's reaping. He holds the record as District 4's oldest male victor. His absence from a post-Second Rebellion meeting of surviving victors suggests he likely perished in the Victors' Purge.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did the District 4 older male victor participate in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Indeed, the elderly victor from District 4 was present for the reaping of the third Quarter Quell, also known as the 75th Hunger Games. He is now presumed to be deceased.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What happened to the District 4 older male victor at the end of the Second Rebellion?
						
				
				
					
						The oldest known male victor from District 4, who had a brief appearance in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, was not present at the meeting of the surviving victors following the Second Rebellion. This absence suggests his probable death during the Victors' Purge.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Years after his initial victory, President Coriolanus Snow announced that tributes for the third Quarter Quell would be reaped from the existing pool of victors, forcing them to compete in the Games regardless of age. As a result, this victor was present at District 4's reaping for the 75th Hunger Games, though he was not chosen to compete and did not volunteer.[2]
At the end of the Second Rebellion, he was not present at a meeting of the seven surviving victors, so he presumably died in the Victors' Purge.[3][4]

Gallery[]

Trivia[]
He only appeared briefly in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, but could be seen more clearly in a behind the scenes featurette for the film.[1]
He is the oldest known male victor from District 4.
Although uncredited, he was portrayed by Ron Stafford. Ron previously appeared as a Gamemaker in The Hunger Games film.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire - Friend or Foe (behind the scenes featurette)

↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 26

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





