

District 9 male


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Victor
Tribute (75th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 9



	
		Weapon
	
	Katana



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Daniel Bernhardt







"Seeing the faces of the eight dead victors projected into the sky. The man from District 5, the one Finnick took out with his trident, is the first to appear... The man from District 5 is followed by the male morphling from 6, Cecelia and Woof from 8, both from 9, the woman from 10, and Seeder from 11.  "
—Katniss Everdeen seeing the District 9 tributes' faces in the sky.[src]
The District 9 male was the male tribute from District 9 who participated in the 75th Hunger Games. He was also a victor of an unspecified prior Hunger Games, somewhere between the early-to-mid 40s.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Chariot rides
1.1.2 Training
1.1.3 Interview
1.1.4 Death




2 Gallery
3 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What Hunger Games did the District 9 male win before the 75th?
						
				
				
					
						The male tribute from District 9, who competed in the 75th Hunger Games, had previously emerged victorious in an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was the female tribute from District 9 in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The female tribute from District 9 in the 75th Hunger Games was a previous victor from an unspecified edition of the games. She lived in the Victors' Village in District 9 and ultimately met her demise in the games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Which district's tributes were costumed as loaves of bread during the Tribute Parade?
						
				
				
					
						During the 75th Hunger Games' Tribute Parade, the tributes costumed as loaves of bread were likely from either District 9 or District 11, given their food-related industries.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Was the District 9 male a victor of the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Yes, the District 9 male who participated in the 75th Hunger Games was a victor, but his victory was not in the 75th Hunger Games. His triumph was in a previous, unspecified Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of District 9 in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, District 9 is a grain-producing region in Panem. Its rebellion against the Capitol resulted in a severe grain shortage. Despite being the least referenced district, it has a notable history, including the first casualty in the 74th Hunger Games being its male tribute. The district also boasts five victors, as per the Mockingjay podiums.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
He was presumably reaped for and won an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games.

75th Hunger Games[]
He was reaped alongside a fellow female victor for the 75th Hunger Games.

Chariot rides[]
During the Tribute Parade, an unknown district's tributes were costumed as loaves of bread;[1] this was presumably District 9 or District 11's tributes, since both had food-producing industries. In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, he and his district partner were dressed in golden outfits possibly designed to look like wheat or bread instead.

Training[]
It is unknown if he showed up for training or not, as he was never mentioned in the novel. However, in the film, he could be seen waiting his turn for his private session in front of the Gamemakers.[2] 

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 9 tributes holding hands with the other victors. 		 	 
Interview[]
During the interviews, he wore a sleeveless, long vest with a leaf and plant motif.[2] After all the tributes were interviewed, they all joined hands in a display of rebellion against the Capitol.[3]

Death[]
The District 9 male was killed during the initial Cornucopia bloodbath.[4]
In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire,  the District 9 male engaged with Finnick and Katniss, ending in him falling into the water and dying shortly after.

Gallery[]
District 9 male during trainingThe District 9 male during training.The victor and his district partner waving in the Tribute ParadeThe District 9 victors at the Interviews.District 9 male's chariot costumeInterview outfitThe victor fighting Finnick and Katniss with a katanaThe District 9 male fighting Finnick and Katniss.The victor's death portrait
References[]


↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 20





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





