

Domitia Whimsiwick


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Kaitlyn Akinpelumi







"I thought Tanner might win this thing. And he probably would have if his allies hadn't betrayed him. I guess that's the takeaway. Be careful who you trust."
—Domitia following her tribute's death.[src]
Domitia Whimsiwick was a female resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. She was assigned the male tribute from District 10, Tanner.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Personality
3 Physical description
4 Etymology
5 References



Biography[]
Domitia was the 'dairy heiress' and thus had extensive knowledge on livestock. This turned out to be a useful asset as during the interviews, she got Tanner to talk about different ways of slaughtering cows, leading to the biggest applause from the crowd, with the exception of Lucy Gray Baird's interview.[1]
As Dr. Volumnia Gaul started reading aloud the essays that the mentors wrote on what they most enjoyed of war, Domitia commented that she felt as if she was a part of something bigger, having to make sacrifices to save the country of Panem.[2]
Her tribute, Tanner, was killed by his own allies, Coral and Mizzen of District 4. Afterwards, Domitia was gracious in defeat, saying that her tribute was a very good-natured person and that District 4 took advantage of it. She said it was one of the many things she learned from being a mentor, believing that she would always cherish her experience. After Domitia wished the remaining mentors the best of luck, Lepidus Malmsey stated that she had just shown how to be a good loser.[3]

Personality[]
She had a bubbly personality and was good at talking with people, which she showed with her tribute during the interviews.[1] Domitia was also rather sensitive and kind, as she told Coriolanus Snow that his story of the turkey was touching, unlike what many of the other mentors said,[2] showing her ability to have empathy as well. 

Physical description[]
She had a ponytail on the top of her head.[2]

Etymology[]
Domitia is the feminine form of the Roman clan Domitius, which produced the father of the Roman emperor Nero. The most notable woman by this name was Nero's paternal aunt, but it was also shared by the wife of emperor Domitian and the mothers of emperors Hadrian and Marcus Aurelius.

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






