

Dr. Aurelius


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Doctor



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol (book)District 13 (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male (book)
Female (film)




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	April Grace





Dr. Aurelius is a doctor who specialized in mental health care during the period of upheaval around the Second Rebellion.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Mockingjay
1.2 The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2


2 Etymology
3 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the nature of Dr. Aurelius's relationship with Katniss Everdeen?
						
				
				
					
						As a head doctor, Dr. Aurelius provided psychological care to Katniss Everdeen post-war. He diagnosed her emotional trauma as a 'mental Avox' and defended her in court to prevent her execution. He was tasked with monitoring her mental health.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Dr. Aurelius's approach to treating Katniss Everdeen's muteness?
						
				
				
					
						Dr. Aurelius, a key doctor of Hunger Games, treated Katniss Everdeen's muteness as a mental condition caused by emotional trauma. He gave her space, only asking if she wished to converse during their sessions. If she remained silent, he would nap. Post President Coin's assassination by Katniss, Dr. Aurelius defended her at the trial, portraying her as a 'hopeless, shell-shocked lunatic' to prevent her execution.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of Dr. Aurelius in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Dr. Aurelius plays a crucial role as a mental health specialist during the Second Rebellion. Post-war, he becomes Katniss Everdeen's doctor, aiding her speech recovery. His character is male in the book 'Mockingjay' and female in the film 'The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2'.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was unique about Dr. Aurelius's methods compared to other doctors in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Dr. Aurelius stands out due to his focus on mental health care amidst the Second Rebellion. His unconventional methods, such as sending a large box of parchment paper to assist Katniss in her project, set him apart from other doctors in the Capitol. He also treated Katniss following her strangulation by a hijacked Peeta.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Mockingjay[]
Dr. Aurelius was a male head doctor (presumably meaning a psychologist or psychiatrist) of unknown origin. Directly after the end of the war, he took on Katniss Everdeen as a client during her stay in the Capitol. Other doctors were confused when Katniss didn't talk, and tests were conducted on her vocal cords, showing she should've been able to speak. He came up with the theory that Katniss had become a "mental, rather than physical, Avox," from the emotional trauma of watching her sister die. He instructed the other doctors to leave her alone. Katniss liked him because he didn't offer empty assurances; he just asked her if she'd like to talk, and when she didn't, he used their sessions as opportunities to take naps.[1]
After Katniss assassinated President Coin, Dr. Aurelius was summoned to her trial, where he presented her as a "hopeless, shell-shocked lunatic" to save her from a criminal conviction. In the end, Katniss was confined to District 12, and she was supposed to keep in contact with Dr. Aurelius to monitor her mental condition, although she never answered the phone.[2]
In the meantime, Dr. Aurelius treated Peeta Mellark in the Capitol and later cleared him to return to District 12. Peeta conveyed the doctor's message to Katniss that he can't pretend to be treating her forever, and she eventually did contact the doctor. Dr. Aurelius' advice was to just go through the motions, and Katniss told him her idea about making a book of memories. Dr. Aurelius agreed and sent a large box of parchment paper on the next Capitol train to help her with her project.[2]

The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2[]
Dr. Aurelius made a brief appearance at the beginning of the film as a rebel doctor in District 13. This iteration of the doctor was a female medical doctor who treated Katniss after she was strangled by a hijacked Peeta.[3]

Etymology[]
Aurelius is a name derived from the Latin "aurum", meaning gold. It could also be a reference to the Roman emperor and Stoic philosopher Marcus Aurelius.

References[]


↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 25

↑ 2.0 2.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 27

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2






