

Dr. Kay

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Biologist at the Citadel



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes







"These were my babies. Never thought I'd see them again. The general consensus was that they wouldn't last the winter. The genetically engineered often struggle in the wild. But they were strong, my birds, and nature has a mind of its own."
—Dr. Kay about the jabberjays[src]
Dr. Kay was a female resident of the Capitol and a scientist assigned to the Citadel. She traveled to District 12 to oversee a Peacekeeper project to collect fifty jabberjays and fifty mockingjays to be brought back to the Citadel.[1] Coriolanus Snow first encountered her back in the Capitol, where she had chastised him for disturbing her birds.[2]


	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the purpose of Dr. Kay's jabberjay project?
						
				
				
					
						As a scientist from the Capitol, Dr. Kay was assigned to a project at the Citadel involving jabberjays. She journeyed to District 12 to supervise a Peacekeeper initiative to gather fifty each of jabberjays and mockingjays for the Citadel. This was part of her role during the First Rebellion.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Coriolanus Snow first encounter Dr. Kay?
						
				
				
					
						Coriolanus Snow's initial encounter with Dr. Kay, or Dr. Gaul, was on a school field trip at the age of nine. He witnessed her using a laser beam to melt a lab rat's flesh. Their first face-to-face meeting took place just before the 10th Hunger Games, following Snow's retrieval from the Capitol Zoo, where he had been with his tribute, Lucy Gray Baird.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the outcome of Dr. Kay's original jabberjay project?
						
				
				
					
						As a scientist from the Capitol, Dr. Kay was in charge of the original jabberjay project during the First Rebellion. Her role involved traveling to District 12 to supervise a Peacekeeper initiative, which entailed gathering fifty jabberjays and fifty mockingjays for transport back to the Citadel.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Dr. Kay was assigned to District 12 during the Dark Days and was the head of the original jabberjay project, which failed after the rebels discovered their use. When the birds were freed, she had thought they wouldn't last the winter, as genetically engineered projects often struggled in the wild, but they turned out to be strong.[1]
After watching Clemensia Dovecote, a fellow mentor, get bitten by Dr. Volumnia Gaul's snake mutts, Coriolanus made a wrong turn into the section of the lab where Dr. Kay experimented with genetically altering birds. She intercepted him, scolded him for disturbing the mutts, and sent him back down to the elevator.[2]
Dr. Kay traveled to District 12 again shortly after Coriolanus had been sent to become a Peacekeeper, explaining their mission to the Peacekeepers after being introduced by another scientist. Because she was familiar, Coriolanus slouched down beside one of his bunkmates and attempted to remain unnoticed.[1]
Coriolanus wasn't sure if she remembered him until she addressed him directly by name, following after having been impressed by Bug, Coriolanus's partner during the project. When she asked him what he thought of the districts, he decided to follow a piece of advice given to him by Lucy Gray Baird and "own it," saying that he had learned more about Panem in one day as a Peacekeeper than he had in thirteen years of school. She taught Snow how the jabberjays worked and also explained to him about the nature of mockingjays. As he was disturbed by the mockingjays, he told her that he felt that they should kill them all. When he realized that she was, in fact, fond of the birds, he tried to disguise his reaction by saying that he was worried that they might hurt the other species of birds in the forests.[3]
When no mockingjays were caught by the traps, showing that their survival skills had advanced, Dr. Kay seemed pleased by their instincts. She directed the Peacekeepers in setting up mist nets to trap the birds instead, instructing them on making the experience as trauma-free as possible for the birds and removing the first three from the net herself. However, Coriolanus became injured by a mockingjay after handling it roughly, and Dr. Kay cleaned and bandaged his hand herself.[4]

Physical description[]

"As she pushed a branch aside, Coriolanus got a clear look at her face, which might have been forgettable had it not been for the large, pink glasses perched on her nose."
—Description of Dr. Kay's glasses[src]
Dr. Kay was a rosy woman with oversized, pink glasses, which made her easily recognizable. She also wore a lab coat.[1]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 25

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 8

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 26

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 27







