

Drove


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	18 (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute



	
		Home
	
	District 10



	
		Weapon
	
	Sword (film, training)
Hand-to-hand combat (film)
Short sword (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male



	
		Height
	
	5'8" (film)[1]




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Jeremy Marinas (film)Mark Samaras (stage)





Drove was the male tribute from District 10 who participated in the 74th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Reaping
1.1.2 Tribute Parade
1.1.3 Training
1.1.4 Interviews
1.1.5 Cornucopia bloodbath
1.1.6 Death




2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who played the role of the District 10 male in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Jeremy Marinas portrayed the District 10 male in the 74th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was unique about the District 10 male that caught Katniss's attention?
						
				
				
					
						The male tribute from District 10 in the 75th Hunger Games was distinctive due to his previous victory in an unspecified Hunger Games. His attire, along with the District 10 female during the Tribute Parade, was particularly noticeable to Katniss Everdeen.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What did the District 10 male and his partner wear in the Tribute Parade?
						
				
				
					
						During the Tribute Parade, the District 10 male tribute and his partner were outfitted in golden cowboy attire, including hats, shirts, and pants. This ensemble symbolized District 10's livestock industry. Following the parade, they were observed conversing behind the District 12 chariot.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Was the District 10 male's disability depicted in the film?
						
				
				
					
						In the book, the District 10 male from the 74th Hunger Games had a 'crippled foot' disability. This was not shown in the film. Instead, the District 8 male was portrayed with a leg injury, possibly referencing the District 10 male's book disability. The District 10 male's film debut was in the Tribute Parade, dressed in golden cowboy attire alongside his partner, symbolizing District 10's livestock industry.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was the District 10 male's partner in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, the District 10 male was partnered with the female tribute from District 10, as each district is represented by one male and one female tribute.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
74th Hunger Games[]
Reaping[]
Drove was one of the few tributes that caught Katniss's attention while watching back footage from the reapings, due to his "crippled foot".[2] However, his disability was not present in the film and was played by a stunt actor.[3]

Tribute Parade[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 10 tributes in their parade costumes. 		 	 
In the film, Drove first appeared in the Tribute Parade with his district partner. They both wore golden cowboy hats, shirts, and pants, representing District 10's livestock industry. Later, once the chariots were parked, they could be seen talking to each other behind the District 12 chariot.[3]

Training[]
During training in the film, Drove was shown practicing with a staff against a trainer, dodging and hitting each other's weapons as Katniss watched, impressed. After Peeta threw a heavy weight, he and the District 5 male were in the background looking doubtfully at the Career Tributes. He was also briefly seen wrestling with the District 6 male while the District 7 male threw a spear with the help of a trainer.[3]
In the film, the District 8 male fell and hurt his leg during training, and was later sent into the arena with a cast on his leg.[3] This was likely a nod to Drove's disability in the book.

Interviews[]
He was described as being "very quiet" when he was interviewed by Caesar Flickerman.[4] In the film, he wore a gray suit with black pants and gray shoes as he waited in line backstage, looking bored.[3]

Cornucopia bloodbath[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Drove getting a duffel bag. 		 	 
Drove survived the initial Cornucopia bloodbath.[5]
In the film, like majority of the tributes, he ran to the Cornucopia for supplies. He grabbed a yellow sleeping bag, but the District 7 male and the District 6 male charged at him in opposite directions. He quickly pushed the District 7 male back and elbowed the District 6 male in the chest. The District 6 female stole the bag from his hands, while Glimmer came from behind to pull her hair, and shove her away from him. After Glimmer killed the District 6 female, Drove collided with her and took the bag away from her. Glimmer pinned him to a crate to stab him, but he was too quick for her. Marvel confronted him and tried to slash him with an axe, but he successfully dodged. At some point in the bloodbath, he and the District 5 male tried to kill Cato while the District 6 male watched from behind a crate. Katniss later spotted him running in the forest with his bag, and she ran the opposite direction.[3]

Death[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			A corpse at the bloodbath played by the same stuntman. 		 	 
The cannon signaling his death, likely at the hands of the Careers, woke Katniss and Rue in the morning on day eight.[6] Katniss didn't realize who it had been until she saw his picture during that evening's anthem recap. He placed 10th out of 24.[7]
Rue later recounted his death as occurring after Glimmer's, at some point in the several days that Katniss slept after being stung by tracker jackers.[3]
The stuntman who played this character also played an extra death there in the film, presenting a continuity error. He was also the second shown to be injured by another tribute during the initial bloodbath, after the District 8 male. Based on the arena wear and the angle of the shots, he might have doubled his district partner.

Trivia[]
In the film, the tribute boards showed that he was 18, weighing 165 pounds.[1]
He, Cato, and Thresh were the oldest and largest tributes in the 74th Hunger Games.[1]
He, Foxface, Rue, and Thresh were the only tributes alive when Katniss dropped the tracker jacker nest who were not known to have gotten stung.
He and the District 10 male from the 75th Hunger Games are similar because they both died after a District 1 female tribute was killed. They also both outlived their district partners, then later died to an unknown cause.
Gallery[]
In the Training CenterDrove running to the CornucopiaThe District 6 female tries to steal Drove's bag while being pulled away by Glimmer in the backgroundThe District 10 boy's location hours before his deathTribute Identification Card
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 File:Full stats board.png

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 3

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 The Hunger Games (film)

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 9

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 11

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 16

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 17






