

Drusilla Sickle


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Significantly older than 30,[2] perhaps around Hattie Meeney's age[3]



	
		Also known as
	
	Drusie[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Escort



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Magno Stift (husband)
Unknown relationsAgrippina SickleVipsania Sickle




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping (upcoming)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Glenn Close





Drusilla Sickle is the escort for the District 12 tributes during the 50th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 50th Hunger Games reaping
1.2 Interviews
1.3 Post-Games
1.4 Film


2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 Gallery
7 References



Biography[]
Drusilla Sickle was an escort from the Capitol and had been going to District 12 to carry out the reaping since the 25th Hunger Games. For the reaping of the 49th Hunger Games, she decorated thumbtacks on her face with tiny buzz saw blades.[3] She was legally married to the District 12 stylist, Magno Stift, and had been for at least thirty years by the time of the 50th Hunger Games.[4]

50th Hunger Games reaping[]
As the 50th Hunger Games was a Quarter Quell, there was a special twist and as such, she had to reap four children instead of two. Drusilla pulled out the names of Louella McCoy, Maysilee Donner, Wyatt Callow and Woodbine Chance. However, Woodbine decided to run away and was shot dead by one of the Peacekeepers.[3] Drusilla berated the Peacekeeper responsible for creating a public mess instead of waiting until the boy was in the alleyway. She began panicking about the broadcast which was due to resume in five minutes and demanded the area was cleaned up beforehand. After screaming that they needed another boy, and referring to Woodbine as a "body", his mother fell into hysterics and tried to prevent them from taking him away with the help of Lenore Dove. After observing Haymitch Abernathy throw himself into the struggle to protect Lenore, she decided that he would be new tribute to replace Woodbine.[5]
Drusilla allowed cameraman Plutarch Heavensbee to take some more footage after the reaping, but was very quick to get out of District 12.[5] She joined Plutarch and the tributes on the train and was complimented by Plutarch, who assured her that she looked young and beautiful during the broadcast. After seeing the strapping District 11 tributes, she remarked that four from District 12 better be able to run. When her tributes were displeased with how Plutarch edited the reaping to remove the death of Woodbine, Drusilla berated them for being ungrateful as he made them look good and therefore, easier for them to get sponsors.[2]
While advising the tributes, Drusilla made a rude comment about Louella's dress. Both she and Maysilee snapped back and insulted the other's outfit. Maysilee also commented on Drusilla's advanced age, causing her to slap the tribute. Maysilee retaliated and Drusilla flew into a rage. She started beating Maysilee brutally until Plutarch made her stop. However, Maysilee continued to disparage Drusilla; in response, Drusilla told the girl that she would die a horrible death and if she did somehow win, she had no idea what was in store for her after.[2]

Interviews[]
Before the interviews, Drusilla tried to help the tributes prepare with the help of Mags Flanagan and Wiress so as to help them get sponsors in the Games. Drusilla played the part of Caesar Flickerman in the preparations, but didn't care about Louella having been replaced by a body double or the pain that the girl was in, triggering Lou Lou into yelling at her that the Capitol was murdering them. When it was Maysilee's turn, she and Drusilla stared daggers at each other. Maysilee insulted Drusilla's outfit before going on to insult other Capitol citizens, resulting in Drusilla calling Maysilee a shrew and saying she would not make any friends with that approach.[6]
When it was Haymitch's turn, Drusilla objected to his insulting the Gamemakers and Peacekeepers and bringing up Woodbine's death. Drusilla called the events at the reaping a riot that she'd had to cover up, and told Haymitch that people would respond to a bad boy, not a rebel. Drusilla suggested that he be naughty, not dangerous, and offered him tips. While her tips were mostly useless, Haymitch sensed that Drusilla was genuinely trying to help him in her own way and latched onto her idea of him being a rascal: someone who was mysterious and alluded to radical behavior without being specific, allowing the audience to use their imagination. However, the interview prep was interrupted by the news that Magno was apparently hallucinating from licking toads. A furious Drusilla stormed out to deal with him, yelling about filing a formal complaint with the Gamemakers.[6]
Drusilla returned in time for the interviews and made sure that everyone knew that Effie Trinket did District 12's clothes. She also told the tributes that since there was no potential for an uprising in the Capitol audience, they were not to mess up and expect her to cover for them. Drusilla also slipped off to speak to Flickerman so that he could know how to approach their interviews.[4]

Post-Games[]
After Haymitch won the Games, he wondered who was paying the price for taking part in the rebellion. While he guessed that Beetee Latier, Mags and Wiress were being tortured for information, Haymitch hoped that Effie Trinket and the prep team were being spared as they were completely clueless Capitol pawns. However, Haymitch doubted that anyone suspected Drusilla and Magno of being sympathizers, and he didn't care if they were suspected.[7]
Before the Victory Tour, Drusilla broke her hip falling down an escalator and was replaced by Effie as the escort for District 12. Plutarch commented that Maysilee was right about Drusilla's heels after all.[8]

Film[]
In the teaser, Drusilla could be seen being escorted out to the reaping square in a vertical stretcher. This formal and theatrical entrance ties back to Panem's authoritarian society.

Physical description[]
Drusilla was an older woman with a plastic face and a dreadful fashion sense. She had thumbtacks encircling her face to pull and hold her skin in place.[3]
In the film, a prop raven can be seen on her head during the reaping. This is likely a reference to "The Raven" by Edgar Allan Poe, mentioned several times throughout Sunrise on the Reaping.

Personality and traits[]
Drusilla was a mean-spirited and snobby woman who had no consideration for the lives of people in the districts. She quickly ordered that Lenore Dove be killed, called the tributes "four violent district piglets" and beat tribute Maysilee Donner during an argument.[2] However, to her credit, Drusilla did try to help in her own way, offering Haymitch tips on how to get the Capitol audience to like him for sponsorship during the interviews. While most of her suggestions were unhelpful, Haymitch latched onto her idea about making himself appear to be a rascal.[6]

Etymology[]
Her name is likely a reference to Livia Drusilla, the mother of the Roman emperor Tiberius. Tiberius's first wife, Vipsania Agrippina, is the likely namesake of both Agripinna and Vipsania Sickle. Livia Drusilla divorced her first husband. The name Drusilla means "strong" or "mighty".
Additionally, her surname, Sickle, refers to a tool used to harvest crops.

Trivia[]
It is likely Drusilla is related to Agrippina and Vipsania Sickle.
Gallery[]

References[]


↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 5

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 3

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1

↑ 4.0 4.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 13

↑ 5.0 5.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 2

↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 12

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 27




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White






