

Eddy


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12



	
		Home
	
	District 8



	
		Relatives
	
	Unnamed sister †



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Michael Garza







"He can't speak, but his one good eye fixes on me with such intensity, as if he's trying to memorize every detail of my face."
—Katniss Everdeen describing Eddy[src]
Eddy was a boy of around 12 years old who lived in District 8 during its bombing in the Second Rebellion.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death


2 Physical description
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Eddy's reaction when he met Katniss Everdeen?
						
				
				
					
						Eddy encountered Katniss Everdeen in a makeshift hospital following a bombing. He was in awe upon meeting her, being one of the first patients to notice her presence.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Eddy and his sister end up in the makeshift hospital?
						
				
				
					
						Eddy and his older sister, rebels from District 8, were injured in their district's bombing, leading to their presence in a makeshift hospital. Eddy's sister had a leg injury. They were among the first to spot Katniss Everdeen during her hospital visit for a propo filming.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the impact of the Second Rebellion on Eddy's life?
						
				
				
					
						Eddy and his sister were injured during the Second Rebellion's bombing and were taken to a makeshift hospital. Eddy met Katniss Everdeen there, which left a strong impression on him. Tragically, after Katniss's departure, the Capitol attacked, destroying the hospital and causing Eddy's death.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What role did Eddy play in the Hunger Games narrative?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Eddy, a 12-year-old from District 8, was part of the Second Rebellion. He and his sister were injured in a bombing, ending up in a makeshift hospital visited by Katniss Everdeen. Eddy, despite his inability to speak, was captivated by Katniss. Tragically, following Katniss' departure, the Capitol attacked, destroying the hospital and causing Eddy's demise.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
During the bombing, Eddy and his sister were injured and ended up in the makeshift hospital that Katniss Everdeen visited while filming a propo. He was in awe when he got the chance to meet her. He and his sister, who was a few beds down, were some of the first patients to notice Katniss.[1]

Death[]
After Katniss left the hospital, the Capitol began an attack, which destroyed the hospital and killed the people within it. Eddy and his sister were confirmed deceased, as it was stated that there were no survivors from the bombings of the hospital.[1]

Physical description[]
Eddy had damp, curly brown hair that covered his forehead. Half of his face was obscured by bandages while he was in the hospital.[1]

Trivia[]
When auditions for Eddy's character were going on, YouTuber penguinz0 was one of the top people to play him. Unfortunately for him, he wasn't picked to play the role as Michael Garza had placed higher than he did.[2]
penguinz0 was then placed as a background character during the bombing scene in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 7

↑ https://youtu.be/ityEaDi_2Vc?si=UCvdnlO-LX0G1urT






