

Egeria


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Director of Labor Operations in District 2 (formerly)[1]Capitol Minister of Affairs[1]



	
		Home
	
	District 2 (formerly)[1]The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Mockingjay - Part 1
Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Sarita Choudhury







"Being in the public eye is accompanied by a certain amount of pressure, so I try to lead by example in all things. Living the One Panem mindset everyday is always my focus—we can do truly astounding things together. I believe that with all my heart."
— Egeria[src]
Egeria was the Capitol's Minister of Affairs,[1] and one of President Snow's Cabinet members.[2]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Second Rebellion
1.2 Reconstruction


2 Personality and traits
3 Physical description
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who played the role of Egeria in The Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 and Part 2, Sarita Choudhury played the role of Egeria, the Capitol's Minister of Interior and a Cabinet member of President Snow.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Egeria's role in President Snow's cabinet?
						
				
				
					
						In the Capitol's administration, Egeria held the position of Minister of Interior and was a key member of President Snow's Cabinet. Her duties included crafting speeches for President Snow, as depicted in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1. The character was brought to life by Sarita Choudhury in the movie series.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What alternative terms did Egeria suggest for 'rebels' in her speech for President Snow?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, Egeria, played by Sarita Choudhury, crafted a speech for President Snow. When he disapproved of the term 'rebels' for district citizens, Egeria proposed 'radicals' or 'criminals'. However, Snow later used her words to justify an attack on District 8's field hospital.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Egeria react to President Snow's decision to assault the field hospital in District 8?
						
				
				
					
						Egeria tried to prevent President Snow from attacking the District 8 field hospital. However, Snow justified the assault as a consequence of the language used in Egeria's speech. Despite her opposition, Egeria did not intervene in the attack's execution.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who is the 'district 8 hospital helper' in The Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Commander Paylor assists at the District 8 hospital in The Hunger Games during the Second Rebellion. She meets Katniss Everdeen during a propo filming for the Airtime Assault on the Capitol, escorting her into the hospital with Gale Hawthorne, Boggs, and a TV crew.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Egeria had been the Director of Labor Operations in District 2 before becoming the Capitol Minister of Affairs. She led the Capitol Ministry of Information, a branch that extended throughout Panem to improve the nation's functionality through data collection and analysis. Egeria's role was to ensure the divisions worked together efficiently.[1]

Second Rebellion[]
In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, Egeria wrote a speech for Snow referring to district citizens as rebels. However, Snow disapproved of her terminology because he didn't want to legitimize the movement, so Egeria put forth "radicals" or "criminals" as alternatives. She later tried to dissuade Snow from launching an assault on the field hospital in District 8, but he justified the punishment as being derived from the language of her speech. She was also with President Snow in his office when the power cut out after rebels destroyed a dam in District 5.[2]
In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2, Egeria was present at a dinner with other high-ranking Capitol officials. She watched and did not intervene as Snow poisoned Antonius for placing a high number of Peacekeepers into District 2, which had fallen into occupation by the rebels. She later woke Snow to inform him that Katniss Everdeen was still alive and showed him footage of Squad 451 in the city's sewers and Transfer. When she saw blood on Snow's tissue, she asked if she should call for a doctor, and Snow declined.[3] 

Reconstruction[]
After the war, Snow was tried and sentenced to death,[4] and a number of his collaborators were still awaiting trial at the time of his execution.[5] Egeria likely would have been among those arrested.

Personality and traits[]
Egeria had strong management skills.[1] Although Egeria was a high-ranking Capitol official, she showed hesitance and did not appear to entirely agree with the Capitol's harsh regime.[2] It's likely that she tread carefully to save herself from being poisoned like some of Snow's other associates.

Physical description[]

"Elegant and dignified, Egeria’s hair sits piled on her head in an intricate twist, her gold eyeliner catching the glint from a set of heavy, jewel-inlaid earrings. She sports a muted brocade skirt suit- the epitome of modern conservative, the buttonless jacket bookended by a Nehru collar and her ever-present gloves."
— Description of Egeria[src]
Egeria wore a red and gray skirt suit, as well as ivory gloves that reminded her not to fidget. Her hair was elegantly twisted, and she had gold eyeliner and jewel earrings.[1]

Etymology[]
In Roman mythology, Egeria was a nymph that served as a counselor of the second king of Rome. She was a skilled speaker and lawmaker. The name Egeria is used to refer to a female advisor.

Trivia[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Egeria's letter to Snow about Felix Stam. 		 	 
Egeria was an original character created for the films that did not appear in the books.
In promotional materials for the films, Egeria wrote letters to the office of President Snow about some of the District Hero candidates.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 Meet Egeria: The Capitol Minister of Affairs

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 25

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 26






