

Elizabeth Banks


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Elizabeth Maresal Mitchell



	
		Character
	
	Effie Trinket



	
		Birthday
	
	February 10, 1974



	
		Birthplace
	
	Pittsfield, Massachusetts, USA



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games film
The Hunger Games: Catching Fire
The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1
The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Years active
	
	1998–present



Elizabeth Banks is an American actress who portrayed Effie Trinket in The Hunger Games film,[1] The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 and  The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2. She stated that the worst part of playing the part of Effie was the long fingernails as she could not do anything, even go to the bathroom on her own while wearing them.

Contents

1 Career

1.1 Awards


2 Personal life
3 External links
4 References



Career[]
Banks has been in films such as Man On A Ledge, What to Expect When You're Expecting, Pitch Perfect, The Hunger Games and The Lego Movie. She is also known for her appearances in TV shows such as Scrubs and Modern Family.  Since 2019, she has been the host of ABC's revival of the 1980s game show Press Your Luck.

Awards[]
Only awards associated with The Hunger Games franchise are listed.



Year

Film

Award

Status


2012

The Hunger Games

MTV Movie Award for Best On-Screen Transformation

Winner


2013

The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

Nominated


2014

The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1

Winner

Personal life[]
Banks met her husband, sportswriter and producer Max Handelman, on her first day at college on September 6, 1992. They were married in 2003. She and her husband had their first child, Felix, who was born through a surrogate in March 2011. In November 2012, Banks announced the birth of another son, Magnus Mitchell, also by surrogate.
Banks went through parts of the process of conversion to Judaism, her husband's faith, and studied with rabbis. In 2013, speaking of her religion, she stated that she practices Judaism, though "I did not have my mikveh, so technically I'm not converted", but that she has "been essentially a Jew for like 15 years", adding "Frankly, because I'm already doing everything [practicing religious rituals], I feel like I'm as Jewish as I'm ever going to be".

External links[]
 Elizabeth Banks at the Internet Movie Database
 Elizabeth Banks on X
Official website
 Elizabeth Banks on Wikipedia
Rotten Tomatoes
References[]


↑ Brian Gallagher (04-18-2011). The Hunger Games Gets Elizabeth Banks as Effie Trinket. Movieweb. Retrieved on 04-18-2011.






