This article is in need of clean up and improvement.
 You can help The Hunger Games Wiki by improving it.  


Evan Ross


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Evan Olav Næss



	
		Character
	
	Messalla



	
		Birthday
	
	August 26, 1988



	
		Birthplace
	
	Greenwich, Connecticut, U.S.A



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1



	
		Years active
	
	1995–present



Evan Ross is an Norwegian-American actor who portrayed Messalla in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 and Part 2. 

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Acting career
1.2 Music career


2 External links



Biography[]
Ross was born Evan Olav Næss on August 26, 1988, in Greenwich, Connecticut, to entertainer Diana Earle Ross and Norwegian businessman and mountaineer, Arne Næss Jr. He has three maternal half-sisters (Tracee Ellis Ross, Rhonda Ross Kendrick and Chudney Ross), three paternal half-brothers and two paternal half-sisters (Christoffer, Nicklas, Louis, Leona Næss and Katinka) and only one brother from both (Ross Næss). In 2004, Ross's father was killed in a climbing accident while in South Africa.

Acting career[]
Ross began his career as an actor while a student at Greenwich High School. His first major role was in the film, ATL, released in March 2006, in which he co-starred with rappers T.I. and Big Boi. Ross received rave reviews for his role as a troubled teenager in Life Support, along with Queen Latifah and Tracee Ellis Ross, who portrayed Evan's elder sister in the movie and is his real life sister. Ross later co-starred in the biography, Pride, in which he portrayed a good natured teen with a speech impediment. He also appeared (uncredited on-screen) in episode 171 of Girlfriends. The episode, titled "What's Black-A-Lackin'?", also had Chrisette Michele as a guest star, and was directed by Tracee Ellis Ross. Ross is involved in several other movies, including Linewatch with Cuba Gooding, Jr. in 2008, and he finished a role in the indie film Life Is Hot in Cracktown. He starred as the love interest of Hilary Duff's character in the 2009 comedy drama According to Greta. He also appeared in the Notorious B.I.G. 2005 video Nasty Girl and the Lionel Richie video Just Go.
In 2010, Ross joined the cast of the CW series 90210 in its third season, where he plays Liam Court's (Matt Lanter) half brother and love interest to Annie Wilson played by Shenae Grimes. His next high-profile 2011 film is the critically acclaimed film festival winner, "Mooz-lum" that also stars Danny Glover and Nia Long. According to IMDB, he has 21 film projects in various stages of production. He will be starring alongside Brittany Snow in the thriller 96 Minutes. Which was released April 28, 2012 in select cities. Evan won the "Breakout Acting" award at SXSW.
Ross has been cast to portray music producer Dallas Austin in the upcoming VH1 biopic, "TLC", about the 1990s girl group.
In the upcoming The Hunger Games: Mockingjay ( Part 1 and  Part 2), scheduled for release in 2014 and 2015, respectively, Ross was cast as Messalla.

Music career[]
In 2007, Ross began recording his debut album, which will encompass R&B and pop. After four years in the studio, Evan released his single "Yes Me" on February 25, 2011, which was produced by Tony DeNiro & written by them together.

External links[]
 Evan Ross at the Internet Movie Database
 Evan Ross on Wikipedia
Evan Ross on Twitter
Evan Ross on Facebook
Evan Ross on Instagram




