 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Three District 11 citizens being executed by Peacekeepers. 		 	 
In Panem, an execution was the state-sanctioned killing of citizens by Peacekeepers, typically by hanging or by firearm, as retribution for a perceived crime. This practice is also known as capital punishment. Following the Second Rebellion, the power to carry out executions was transferred over to the rebels.[1]

Contents

1 History

1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes
1.2 Sunrise on the Reaping

1.2.1 50th Hunger Games


1.3 The Hunger Games
1.4 Catching Fire
1.5 Mockingjay

1.5.1 Execution of President Snow




2 Known victims of executions
3 Trivia
4 References



History[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Exterior of the Capitol Arena 		 	 
During the Dark Days, the Capitol staged high-profile executions of rebels in the Capitol Arena, which would later be appropriated for the first ten annual Hunger Games.[2] There were also many brutal executions after the Treaty of Treason was signed.[3]

The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes[]
In the lead-up to the 10th Hunger Games, the District 10 female tribute, Brandy, was shot by Peacekeepers after killing her mentor,[4] and Facet and Velvereen from District 1 were shot dead while trying to escape the Capitol Arena.[5]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Arlo Chance at his execution. 		 	 
Three formal executions took place in District 12, the first being the execution of ex-soldier Arlo Chance. After killing three people in the bombing of District 12 coal mines, he was sentenced to death by hanging. At the hanging tree, he called for his lover, Lil, to run.[6] His execution inspired Lucy Gray Baird to write "The Hanging Tree" song.[7]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lil's execution 		 	 
Lil was later executed for treason as well, alongside Peacekeeper Sejanus Plinth, who had been planning to run away from the districts. The two were described as "weak with terror"; Lil's legs were shaking so badly that she had to be hauled up by Peacekeepers. Sejanus first called out to his friend Coriolanus Snow, who had betrayed him to this fate, and his last act was to cry out for his mother.[8] In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Spruce was hanged alongside his sister and Sejanus.[9]

Sunrise on the Reaping[]
The winter after the 46th Hunger Games, Clay Chance was sentenced to be hanged in the gallows for an unknown crime. The night before his execution, someone filed halfway through the rope, so when they tried to hang him in front of a crowd the next day, the rope snapped. Clay fell to the ground, where he was shot dead by "a dozen Peacekeeper bullets".[10]
A witness in town reported that they saw twelve-year-old Lenore Dove Baird leaving the square, so she was taken to the Peacekeepers' base for questioning. However, Clay's sister Binnie Chance claimed responsibility. She had been living "on borrowed time for a year" due to a heart condition, so three days after being taken into custody, Binnie died in her cell and Lenore Dove was released.[10]

50th Hunger Games[]
When Woodbine Chance was reaped for the 50th Hunger Games, he attempted to run into an alleyway. Before he could get there, he was shot dead with a single bullet through the back of his head[11] by a young Peacekeeper, stationed as a sniper on top of the Justice Building. When Woodbine's family tried to claim his body, Lenore Dove aided them, and her boyfriend Haymitch Abernathy stepped in when a Peacekeeper tried to hit her. As a result of the chaos, the reaping of another boy had to be staged to patch into the broadcast. For his role in the struggle, Drusilla Sickle singled out Haymitch for punishment, replacing Woodbine in the Games.[12]

The Hunger Games[]
Rue explained that Peacekeepers in District 11 once executed Martin, a developmentally disabled boy, on the spot for stealing. He'd tried to take a pair of night vision glasses from the orchard to play with.[13]

Catching Fire[]
Seneca Crane, the Head Gamemaker, was executed for allowing Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark to both win the 74th Hunger Games.[14] His manner of death is unknown, but during her private session in front of the Gamemakers for the 75th Hunger Games, Katniss hanged him in effigy using a training dummy.[15]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The old man about to be shot by Peacekeepers. 		 	 
During Katniss and Peeta's stop in District 11 on their Victory Tour, an old man whistled Rue's four-note song, and in a show of rebellion, the people of the district performed District 12's traditional three-finger salute. As co-victors Katniss and Peeta left the stage, the old man was dragged up the steps to be immediately killed with a single shot to the back of the head,[16] and at least two more gunshots followed, quite probably signaling more deaths.[17]
Following the uprising of District 8, citizens were forbidden from leaving their homes, and the only time the television didn't display static was when they aired the hangings of suspected instigators in the town square.[18]
District 12's new Head Peacekeeper, Romulus Thread, had a new whipping post, several stockades, and a gallows built in the center of their square. According to Katniss, these new installations were in frequent use, but it's unknown whether anyone was executed.[19]

Mockingjay[]
After Peeta was rescued from the Capitol, President Snow televised the execution of Peeta's stylist, Portia, and his prep team.[20] By the end of the Second Rebellion, all stylists from the third Quarter Quell were dead, and all but one prep team had been killed. In that same time frame, all but seven Hunger Games victors were killed in the Victors' Purge. 18 died in the 75th Hunger Games, and for 32 of the 34 subsequent deaths, it's unknown how many of them were executions, civilian deaths, or casualties of combat.[21]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			One of the district executions in Mockingjay - Part 1 		 	 
In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, Snow gave a televised speech, announcing that possessing images of the mockingjay would be considered treason, punishable by death. While this happened, two people from District 8 and three from District 11 were hauled out in front of their respective Justice Buildings and a crowd of their peers. With sacks over their faces, each victim was shot once in the back of the head.[22] They are often presumed to be victors due to the purge.

Execution of President Snow[]
Main article: Execution of President Snow
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss aiming to shoot Snow. 		 	 
Following the end of the war, Snow was tried and sentenced to death.[1] The plan was for him to be shot in the heart with a single arrow by Katniss Everdeen, symbolically firing the last shot of the war. However, she changed her target at the last second and assassinated Interim President Alma Coin instead.[21] In the ensuing chaos, Snow was either trampled to death by the crowd or choked on his own blood.[23]
According to Coin, "hundreds of [Snow's] accomplices" were also awaiting death sentences at the time of his execution,[21] but it is unknown how many of these were actually carried out, if any, under her successor President Paylor.[23] It is also unknown whether capital punishment was retained or repealed afterwards.

Known victims of executions[]


Jurisdiction

Victims


The Capitol


Brandy - District 10
Facet and Velvereen - District 1
Seneca Crane
Portia and Peeta Mellark's prep team
Cinna (presumed)


District 8


Rebel leaders
Two District 8 citizens (Mockingjay - Part 1)


District 11


Martin
Unnamed elderly man
Three District 11 citizens (Mockingjay - Part 1)


District 12


Arlo Chance
Clay Chance
Woodbine Chance
Lil
Sejanus Plinth - District 2 (originally)/The Capitol
Spruce (The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes)


Rebels


Coriolanus Snow - Capitol (sentenced)
Other Capitol officials (sentenced)


Unknown

Possible executions, civilian deaths, or casualties of combat:
Hunger Games victors - various districts
Unnamed District 7 stylist, all other Quell stylists, and all but one prep team - Capitol

Trivia[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Seneca Crane being let into the room with the berries. 		 	 
In The Hunger Games film, Seneca Crane was presented with a bowl of poisonous nightlock berries, whereupon he presumably died by forced suicide.[24] In keeping with classical inspirations for the series, this execution method was apparently common in ancient Greece and Rome.
While in solitary confinement for assassinating Coin, Katniss thought she was going to be executed.[23]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 25

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 9

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ 10.0 10.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 5

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 2

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 15

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 2

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 4

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 5

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 10

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 9

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 13

↑ 21.0 21.1 21.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 26

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1

↑ 23.0 23.1 23.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 27

↑ The Hunger Games (film)






