

Fabricia Whatnot

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Fashion designer



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Mentioned
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Mentioned
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes







"Perhaps Tigris had gone to ask help from her employer, Fabricia Whatnot, a woman as ridiculous as her name but with a certain talent for derivative fashion. Whether the trend was feathers or leathers, plastics or plush, she could find a way to incorporate it at a reasonable rate."
—Fabricia's fashion design[src]
Fabricia Whatnot was a fashion designer in the Capitol, as well as Tigris's boss. Tigris was meant to be working under her as an apprentice designer; however, Fabricia used her for slave labor. She would make Tigris give her foot massages and clean her hair from the drains. Despite this, Tigris seemed to adore her and would defend her against criticism from others. Coriolanus Snow considered Whatnot to be as ridiculous as her name, though nevertheless possessing a talent for derivative fashion.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Fabricia Whatnot's profession in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						In the Capitol, Fabricia Whatnot held the profession of a fashion designer. She was recognized for her talent to integrate diverse trends like feathers, leathers, plastics, or plush into her designs. Fabricia was the boss of Tigris, who served as an apprentice designer but was also tasked with duties like foot massages and drain cleaning.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Fabricia Whatnot treat Tigris as her apprentice?
						
				
				
					
						As a fashion designer in the Capitol, Fabricia Whatnot had Tigris as her apprentice. However, Fabricia exploited Tigris, making her perform menial tasks like foot massages and drain cleaning. Despite this, Tigris held Fabricia in high regard and defended her against critics.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Coriolanus Snow's opinion of Fabricia Whatnot?
						
				
				
					
						Coriolanus Snow viewed Fabricia Whatnot as somewhat absurd, mirroring her unusual name. However, he did acknowledge her knack for fashion. Her influence was evident when she hosted a successful party for the 10th Hunger Games' Reaping.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the nature of the relationship between Tigris and Fabricia Whatnot?
						
				
				
					
						In the Capitol, Fabricia Whatnot functioned as a fashion designer and the superior of Tigris. Although Tigris was officially an apprentice designer, Fabricia often utilized her for menial tasks, including foot massages and drain cleaning. Tigris, however, maintained a high level of respect for Fabricia and would defend her against any detractors.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Fabricia Whatnot's contribution to fashion in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						As a fashion designer in the Capitol, Fabricia Whatnot was known for her ability to integrate the latest trends, such as feathers, leathers, plastics, or plush, into her designs. Her apprentice, Tigris, despite being used for menial tasks, admired her. Fabricia's designs were not only fashionable but also affordable, demonstrating her talent for incorporating diverse materials.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Fabricia held a party to celebrate the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games. Tigris later told Snow that everyone at the party was nuts about his tribute, Lucy Gray Baird, feeling that she had "star quality."[2] After the party, Fabricia told Tigris to throw out the stale bread, but Tigris secretly saved it and brought it home, where she managed to salvage it and turn it into something tasty.[3]
Later, Fabricia discarded a pot of blush with a little bit left in the bottom, and Tigris used it for Lucy Gray's makeup.[4]

Physical description[]
Fabricia had long, magenta hair. She was also involved with all the latest fashion trends, and incorporated them into her outfits.[1]

Etymology[]
The name Fabricia is based off fabric, a material she likely worked with as a fashion designer. "Whatnot" is a word that refers to a nondescript person or thing.

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11







