

Facet


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12-18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 1



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (Shot by Peacekeepers)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Tim Torok







"He half registered the other tributes, mostly pitiful creatures, and took note of the stronger ones. Sejanus got a towering fellow from District 2, and Livia's District 1 boy looked like he could be a contender as well."
—Coriolanus Snow describing Marcus and Facet.[src]
Facet was the male tribute from District 1 in the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Livia Cardew. He and his district partner Velvereen were murdered by Peacekeepers for attempting to flee amidst the Capitol Arena bombing.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death


2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was Facet's mentor in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Facet was mentored by Livia Cardew, a high-achieving student at the Academy. The mentorship program, introduced in the 10th Hunger Games, initially assigned top students, not previous victors, as mentors.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the cause of Facet's death in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Facet, a participant in the 10th Hunger Games, met his end at the hands of Peacekeepers. This incident took place when he tried to flee the Capitol Arena prior to the start of the Games. His district partner, Velvereen, suffered the same fate.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Facet's district partner in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Facet was paired with Velvereen as district partners from District 1. Their lives were tragically cut short by Peacekeepers during an attempted escape amidst the Capitol Arena bombing.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What district did Facet represent in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Facet, a tribute in the 10th Hunger Games, represented District 1. His partner, Velvereen, and he were killed by Peacekeepers during an escape attempt from the Capitol Arena.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Facet during the reaping. 		 	 
Facet lived in District 1 following the failed rebellion of the Dark Days and possibly before. He was reaped as tribute for the 10th Hunger Games. Coriolanus Snow noted that he looked like he could be a strong contender.[1]
Along with the other tributes, Facet was taken to the Capitol by cattle car. From there, he was dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2]

Death[]
While touring the Capitol Arena with his mentor Livia Cardew and the other remaining 22 tribute-mentor pairs, several bombs planted by the rebels were detonated. The explosions created a cracked opening near the entrance of the arena. Facet, along with his district partner Velvereen and the District 2 tributes Sabyn and Marcus, used the resulting mayhem as their opportunity to attempt an escape. He was shot dead by Peacekeepers before he could reach the opening. 
His body was tied to a horse and dragged down Scholars Road during Apollo and Diana Ring's funeral.[3]

Etymology[]
A facet is a flat face on a geometric object. "Facet" can also refer to any individual aspect of something.

Trivia[]
Despite being reaped, Facet never competed in the 10th Hunger Games.
He was implied to be one of the stronger tributes, as Coriolanus Snow repeatedly mentioned throughout the book that with the deaths of the District 1 and 2 tributes, Lucy Gray's odds of winning significantly increased.
Gallery[]
Facet in the Capitol Arena.Concept art of Facet and Velvereen's costumes.Behind-the-scenes image of Tim Torok (Facet).
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





