

Felix Ravinstill


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Maximinius Ravinstill (great-uncle)



	
		Fate
	
	Alive (book)
Deceased (film)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Aamer Husain





Felix Ravinstill was a great-nephew of President Ravinstill and a student at the Capitol's prestigious Academy. He was one of the school's 24 top-performing seniors selected to be mentors for the 10th Hunger Games. He was assigned the female tribute from District 11, Dill.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Film adaptation


2 Etymology
3 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Felix Ravinstill play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Felix Ravinstill, an Academy student and relative of President Ravinstill, served as a mentor. His mentee was Dill, the female tribute from District 11.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Felix Ravinstill's tribute in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Felix Ravinstill, an Academy student and relative of President Ravinstill, mentored Dill, the female contender from District 11.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Felix Ravinstill try to promote his tribute during the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Felix Ravinstill, a distinguished student from the Capitol's Academy and relative of President Ravinstill, was chosen as a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. To attract sponsors, he employed humor during his interviews. However, his actions in the Games were brutal, resulting in the deaths of at least two tributes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the challenge faced by Felix Ravinstill while promoting his tribute in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Felix Ravinstill, an Academy student and relative of President Ravinstill, faced the challenge of attracting sponsors in the 10th Hunger Games. He attempted to appeal to sponsors with a comedic approach during his interviews. Despite his humor, he demonstrated ruthlessness in the games, eliminating at least two tribes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Felix visiting the arena. 		 	 
Felix visited the Capitol Arena with the other mentors and their tributes.
Felix tried to promote his tribute during the interviews, but his tribute's sickly disposition gave him little opportunity to make an impact.[1] He seemed to know Casca Highbottom, the dean of the Academy, well, and caught up on gossip together after the pre-show.[2]
Dill placed fourteenth, passing away from complications of tuberculosis shortly after entering the arena. Felix commented that he was surprised that she had lasted the day when he saw her emerge, sending her two bottles of water, although they were stolen by Treech, the male tribute from District 7. Felix was graceful in defeat and was complimented excessively by Lepidus Malmsey, though that may have been due to Felix being the president's grandnephew.[3]

Film adaptation[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The television announcement about Felix. 		 	 
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Felix was the son of the president. He was hospitalized and in critical condition after the bombing of the Capitol Arena, succumbing to his injuries during the Games only a few days later. An image of his body was televised during the broadcast, and his death was the justification for the Head Gamemaker, Dr. Volumnia Gaul, to send snake mutts into the arena.[4]

Etymology[]
Felix was the one of the four sons of the Roman god Saturn and a mortal woman, Entoria. In Latin, the word felix means "lucky" and "blessed". It was adopted as a cognomen with that meaning by the Roman dictator Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix.

References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana








