

Festus Creed


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Max Raphael







"Simple. We go straight to the punitive. Instead of suggesting people watch, we make it the law."
—Festus on how to get people to watch the Hunger Games[src]
Festus Creed was a male resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. He was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. He was assigned the female tribute from District 4, Coral.[1]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 10th Hunger Games


2 Personality and traits
3 Physical description
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Festus Creed play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Festus Creed served as a mentor. He was a top-performing senior at the Academy in the Capitol. His mentee was Coral, a strong female tribute from District 4. Festus was a close associate of Coriolanus Snow and belonged to an old Capitol family. He expressed dissatisfaction with the lack of food during the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was the female tribute from District 4 that Festus Creed mentored?
						
				
				
					
						Festus Creed, an accomplished student from the Capitol's Academy, mentored Coral, the female tribute from District 4, during the 10th Hunger Games. Their mentor-tribute relationship was notable for their active participation in interviews. Festus also advocated for Coral's competitive abilities against male tributes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How is Festus Creed connected to Coriolanus Snow?
						
				
				
					
						Festus Creed belonged to Coriolanus Snow's close-knit group since their early years. He hailed from a wealthy family in the Capitol, with significant earnings from District 7's timber industry. Snow viewed Festus as a dependable ally, inviting him to a celebratory event for Sejanus Plinth's would-be 19th birthday. They were academic peers under Dr. Volumnia Gaul at the University, collaborating on a project to devise a severe punishment for adversaries.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of Festus Creed's family background in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						Festus Creed, an Academy student from the Capitol, hails from a wealthy family with roots in District 7 timber. Despite a setback during the First Rebellion, the family regained their wealth in the post-rebellion reconstruction. Festus was part of Coriolanus Snow's inner circle from birth, reflecting his family's influence, which included overseeing District 7's timber production.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Festus was a part of Coriolanus Snow's inner circle since birth. His family came from old Capitol money, largely from District 7 timber. It took a hit during the Dark Days, but rebounded nicely in the reconstruction effort.[2]
During a session with Professor Crispus Demigloss, Demigloss asked the mentors to brainstorm ways to encourage people to watch the Hunger Games, which were considered grim viewing at the time. Festus's suggestion was to execute anyone in the districts who did not watch and to banish anyone in the Capitol that did not watch to the districts, executing them the next year if they messed up again. The class then began debating the idea, considering it unenforceable because you couldn't send Peacekeepers to everyone's door. They also discussed Coriolanus's idea of having the Capitol citizens bet on the tributes, which Festus believed would liven things up.[2]
Festus was present at the Capitol Zoo, presumably to meet with his tribute, Coral. However, as Arachne's throat was slit by her own tribute, Festus stood next to her and Coriolanus and they exchanged helpless, worried looks. After Arachne died and was transported away by medics, Clemensia Dovecote managed to join the pair. As the three of them walked home, Festus proposed that they come back to his apartment. However, as they reached his apartment complex he burst into tears, leaving Snow and Clemensia to bid him goodnight.[1]
Festus only received minor injuries from the arena bombing, sporting a sling on his arm and stitches on his cheek. He visited Snow when he was in the hospital, telling him that the Academy had canceled classes, and choked up upon explaining the deaths of Diana and Apollo Ring.[3]
Festus and Coral were one of the few mentor-tribute pairs who had something to participate with during the interviews.[4] After the class with Dr. Gaul, Festus and Hilarius Heavensbee discussed strategies to use for female tributes. Festus rebuked Hilarius' claim that girls didn't fight the same way as boys by arguing that Coral could compete well against the male tributes.[5]

10th Hunger Games[]
Festus arrived at Heavensbee Hall just as Clemensia argued with Lysistrata and Coriolanus. As Festus rebutted Clemensia's anger, she told him to shut up. After she left, Festus took a seat beside Snow and Lysistrata while questioning her hostility toward Coriolanus for her sickness, believing it odd.[6]
On the morning of the second day of the Games, Festus showed discontent at not being fed. However, Coriolanus gifted him a bag of bread rolls, proud that he gave something for a change, as he owed the Creeds a lot in return. Later that day, Festus worked with Persephone Price to coordinate strategies, and Coriolanus could tell Festus was falling for her.[7] Coriolanus also gave Festus lima beans further into the Games for breakfast, as he had lost his appetite. He swapped Festus' empty bowl with his own to avoid reprimands.[8]
When Clemensia refused to feed her tribute, Reaper, Festus told her to give him food and called her heartless when she responded, asking him to mind his own business.[9] Later, he apologized when he saw Reaper taking Wovey's dead body to his makeshift morgue.[8]
Festus's tribute, Coral, was killed by snake mutts released into the Capitol Arena by Dr. Volumnia Gaul. As he was dismissed from the proceedings, Snow gave him a bear hug, emotional at his reliable friend being out of the running.[10]
Coriolanus Snow considered Creed, along with Lysistrata Vickers, to be someone who liked Sejanus Plinth better most of his other classmates at the Academy and someone who could be counted on to say nice things about him. He thus invited him, along with Vickers, to a party to celebrate what would have been Plinth's 19th birthday.[11]

Personality and traits[]
He had once dared Snow to have a one night stand with a girl in an alleyway.[12] He was also entertained by dogfights.[2] He could be sympathetic to a degree, as he demanded for Clemensia to feed her tribute, Reaper, during the Games.[9] Festus also had a big appetite, as he quickly ate Snow's bread rolls and lima beans.[7]

Physical description[]
Festus was bigger and burlier than most boys his age.[2]

Etymology[]
Festus is a Latin word for "festive" or "joyful". It was also the surname of several notable Roman historical figures, such as Judean governor Porcius Festus, grammarian Sextus Pompeius Festus, and a historian. His surname, Creed, is an English word referring to a doctrine or set of beliefs.

Trivia[]

"Four hours of Jason just bullying me exists somewhere in a vault at Lionsgate."
—Max Raphael
During the filming of The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Jason Schwartzman decided that Lucky Flickerman needed a "nemesis", so with permission from Festus's actor Max Raphael, he singled out Festus to pick on. According to Raphael, "We've got a whole backstory here. Festus, maybe he wants a career in broadcasting. Maybe Lucky babysat him when he was a kid, and he's just never gotten over how annoying he was. I don't know. That's for the fans to decide.”[13]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ 7.0 7.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ 8.0 8.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ 9.0 9.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ https://x.com/panempropaganda/status/1757109429932024259




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






