

Fila


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	14 (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute



	
		Home
	
	District 3



	
		Weapon
	
	Land mines 
Spear



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male



	
		Height
	
	5'6[1]




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games (film)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Ian Nelson (film)Rory Toms (stage)





Fila was the male tribute from District 3 who participated in the 74th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Tribute Parade
1.1.2 Training 
1.1.3 Interviews
1.1.4 Cornucopia bloodbath
1.1.5 The Games
1.1.6 Death




2 Physical description
3 Tactics
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did the District 3 male play in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The male tribute from District 3, portrayed by Ian Nelson, participated in the 74th Hunger Games. His weapon of choice was land mines and a spear, marking his significant role in the games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who portrayed the District 3 male in the Hunger Games film?
						
				
				
					
						Ian Nelson portrayed the District 3 male tribute in the 74th Hunger Games film.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What did the District 3 tributes' outfits represent in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, all tributes including the District 3 male from the 74th Hunger Games wore identical uniforms. These uniforms featured black short-sleeved shirts with red and light gray stripes on the sleeves and underarms, black sweatpants with matching stripes, and black leather shoes. A cloth square with their district number was also pinned to their back for identification by the Gamemakers.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the District 3 male's reaction to his partner's injury during training?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, the District 3 male demonstrated concern upon his district partner's injury during training. He also displayed a reluctant laugh when Glimmer elbowed him, possibly to curry favor with the Career Tributes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What did the District 3 male and District 9 male create together during training?
						
				
				
					
						In the training phase of the 74th Hunger Games, the District 3 male and the District 9 male collaborated to ignite a fire. Upon successful ignition, they promptly retreated.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
74th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 3 tributes in their parade costumes. 		 	 
Tribute Parade[]
In the film, the District 3 tributes wore silver costumes and silver headdresses to represent their technology industry during the Tribute Parade.

Training []
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Fila and the District 9 male light a fire. 		 	 
Fila was first seen in the Training Center working with the District 9 male to create a fire, and quickly backed away when the fire ignited. He also showed concern when his district partner was injured in training, but laughed reluctantly when Glimmer elbowed him, probably to make the Career Tributes like him.

Interviews[]
In the interviews, Fila wore a yellow suit with a black shirt under it. Katniss Everdeen said that there was nothing special about his interview.

Cornucopia bloodbath[]
Fila survived the initial Cornucopia bloodbath. He was stationed to the left of Glimmer. After arriving at the cornucopia, he grapples over Marvel's axe. When he refused to let go, Marvel shoves his heavy backpack into his face, which causes him to fall to the ground. He is then later seen fighting the District 7 female over a backpack, while Thresh is running out of the Cornucopia. He somehow managed to survive and escape into the forest.

The Games[]
As shown in The Hunger Games film, at the time of the wild fire, Fila was outside the northern part of the Cornucopia. By day eight (although it is presumed to be day five in the book, as he joined when the Careers led the tracker jackers to the lake), he had joined the Career pack and booby-trapped the area right around the Cornucopia with land mines he had dug up and then re-armed, which Katniss said in the book that he probably knew due to the fact that he was from District 3 which produces technology. Katniss Everdeen discovered the minefield after observing Foxface steal supplies from the Careers, while Rue distracted the other Careers with several fires. In the film, he was left behind to guard. In the novel, the Careers told him to come with them to look for Rue. 

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Fila at the Careers' camp. 		 	 
While Marvel, Clove, and Cato were hunting for Rue, Foxface stole supplies from the Careers, jumping around the mines in what Katniss described as a sort of "dance". As Foxface ran away behind Fila, he looked around to see who was there and followed Foxface into the woods to take her down. Katniss blew up the Careers' supplies by shooting a suspended bag of apples with her arrows when he left, which in turn set off the mines he planted, destroying everything. After the explosion, Fila came back and saw the blown-up supplies.

Death[]
When the Careers returned, Cato, in a fit of rage, confronted Fila and stripped him of his spear, the only means of protection he had, and promptly snapped his neck as Katniss watched from behind cover nearby. He placed 9th out of 24.

Physical description[]
In the novels, he, Beetee, and Wiress were all described as having ashen skin. This was probably a general characteristic of District 3's people.

Tactics[]
Like most tributes, he participated in the Cornucopia bloodbath and was lucky enough to survive the onslaught. He survived alone close to the Cornucopia until some point after the tracker jackers killed Glimmer and Peeta was kicked out of the Career pack. The surviving Careers found him and allowed him into their pack in exchange for him rewiring the mines around their stash of supplies, which he agreed to. As a tribute of District 3, he was skilled in electronics.

He was also armed with a spear while with the Careers. In the film, when Foxface stole supplies, he followed her in an attempt to kill her, possibly to impress his new companions, but inadvertently left the stash unguarded. After Katniss blew up the Careers' supplies, he immediately returned and tried to explain that he did not see what happened, but this would be his downfall.  	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Fila's Tribute Identification Card. 		 	 
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Fila waiting for his interview. 		 	 
Trivia[]
In the film, he weighs 120 pounds, same as his district partner. He is 14 years old in the film. His odds of winning were initially 20-1 after training,[1] and later 22–1. He was the only tribute to have his odds decrease instead of improving.
When all the tributes are standing on their platforms, he is seen standing next to his district partner.
He was the highest placing unnamed tribute, not including Foxface, as she had a nickname.
In the Tribute Guide, his height is said to be 4'8, but when he is seen fighting with the District 7 female, he is taller; his actual height is closer to 5'6", given alongside his betting odds in the film.
In the trailer of The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, it can be noted that when Katniss and Peeta visited District 3 on their Victory Tour, only a woman was standing on the pedestal preserved for the family members of a deceased tribute. The woman could possibly have been his mother, and no father or siblings were present.
He survived for 8 days in the book and for 7 days in the film. Despite the film does not show how long he lasted in the games, if we count the time that elapses from when Caesar and Claudius appear on the scoreboard explaining the mines surrounding the supply tower until their death, it tells us that it lasted exactly 6 days, 9 hours, 14 minutes, 49 seconds, and 60 milliseconds. Note that the first day is counted as day 0 on the scoreboards.
He had the lowest odds of all the Cornucopia survivors excluding Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark.
In The Hunger Games On Stage, his name is Fila, which could derive from electrical filaments.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 File:Statsreference.png






