
This article is a stub.
 You can help The Hunger Games Wiki by expanding it. 


Francis Lawrence


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Francis Lawrence



	
		Birthday
	
	March 26, 1970



	
		Birthplace
	
	Vienna, Austria



	
		Appearance
	
	Director of Catching Fire, Mockingjay - Part 1, Part 2, The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes and The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Years active
	
	1993–present



Francis Lawrence is an American/Austrian music video, TV, and film director. He directed the four sequels in The Hunger Games film franchise.

Contents

1 Career
2 Trivia
3 External links
4 References



Career[]
He was announced as the new director of The Hunger Games: Catching Fire after Gary Ross, director of The Hunger Games film, bowed out of directing the sequel. Lawrence was first reported to be the The Hunger Games: Catching Fire director on April 19, 2012[1] and was confirmed on May 3.[2] Previous feature films he directed include the sci-fi hit I Am Legend and Water for Elephants. He also went on to direct Mockingjay - Part 1 and Part 2 in 2014 and 2015, as well as the 2023 prequel film, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes[3] and is returning to direct the 2026 The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping.[4]

Trivia[]
Although Jennifer Lawrence and Francis Lawrence share the same last name, they have no relation.
Rachel Zegler said she was too scared to ask Lionsgate to release the studio version of "The Old Therebefore", so she "made Francis do it" for her.[5]
In the prequel film, the monument of Trajan Heavensbee was modelled after Francis Lawrence's face.[6]
Lawrence also directed a similar dystopian film, titled The Long Walk.
External links[]
 Francis Lawrence on Wikipedia
 Francis Lawrence at the Internet Movie Database
References[]


↑ Director Francis Lawrence Chosen For ‘Catching Fire’ Sequel To ‘Hunger Games’

↑ Francis Lawrence confirmed as 'Catching Fire' director

↑ Chitwood, Adam (April 21, 2020). ‘Hunger Games’ Prequel Movie Officially in the Works; Francis Lawrence Returning to Direct. Collider. Retrieved on April 21, 2020.

↑ Ridgely, Charlie (December 29, 2024). Hunger Games Director Addresses the Challenges of Casting a Young Haymitch for New Prequel Movie. ComicBook.com. Retrieved on January 7, 2025.

↑ https://twitter.com/rachelzegler/status/1755260018511774185

↑ On set information





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





