

Gary Ross


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Gary Ross



	
		Birthday
	
	November 3, 1956



	
		Birthplace
	
	Los Angeles, California, U.S.A



	
		Appearance
	
	Director of The Hunger Games film



	
		Years active
	
	1986–present



Gary Ross is an American screenwriter, director, and producer. The Hunger Games is the third feature film that he has directed following Pleasantville and Seabiscuit, both of which he also produced.
On April 10, 2012, Ross released a joint statement with Lions Gate Entertainment announcing that he would not direct the sequel to The Hunger Games. He cited the time needed to write and prep the movie given its tight production schedule as the deciding factor.[1]

Trivia[]
The Hunger Games is Ross' first film not to star William H Macy or Tobey Maguire.
He has worked with Elizabeth Banks twice.
He dropped out of the eventually canceled Spider-Man 4 to do The Hunger Games.
The Hunger Games is Ross' first film not to be scored by Randy Newman, who did the score for Toy Story 3, which was written by The Hunger Games: Catching Fire screenwriter Michael Arndt.
He read The Hunger Games in one night.
His daughters introduced him to The Hunger Games trilogy.
External links[]
 Gary Ross on Wikipedia
 Gary Ross at the Internet Movie Database
References[]


↑ 'Hunger Games:' Gary Ross won't direct 'Catching Fire'





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





