

Ginnee


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 6



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (Killed in bombing)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Kyra Reinert







"They didn't even know if the bombs had been triggered remotely or by a false step, but the unexpected losses shook the Capitol to its core. That the two tributes from District 6 had been killed by shrapnel caused little concern, but the same explosion had taken the lives of the Ring twins."
—Coriolanus Snow describing how little Otto and Ginnee's deaths meant to the Capitol.
Ginnee was a tribute from District 6 for the 10th Hunger Games. Her mentor was Diana Ring. She died before the Games even started. During the Ring twins' funeral, the bodies of her and her district partner, Otto (or what remained of them), were draped on horses and paraded down Scholars Road.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death


2 Etymology
3 Gallery
4 References



Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Ginnee in the Capitol Zoo. 		 	 
Ginnee grew up in District 6 and became her district's female tribute in the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1]
Along with the other tributes, Ginnee was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2] While in the zoo, Ginnee and Otto began a funny dance, and their mentors, Diana and Apollo Ring, got some of the audience to clap along. This led to the environment becoming more festive and social.[3]

Death[]
Before the start of the Games, the tributes and their mentors were taken on a tour of the Capitol Arena. During the tour, rebel bombs exploded, sending shrapnel that killed Ginnee, as well as her district partner and their mentors.
Her body was later draped on the back of a horse and paraded down Scholars Road during the Ring twins' funeral.[4]

Etymology[]
Ginnee's name is an anagram of the word "engine", as in a car engine.

Gallery[]
Ginnee's face on the monitors.Concept art of Otto and Ginnee's costumes.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





