

Gloss


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15 (63rd Hunger Games)
27 (Catching Fire)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor (63rd Hunger Games)
Mentor
Career Tribute (75th Hunger Games)[2]



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 1



	
		Relatives
	
	Cashmere † (younger sister)



	
		Weapon
	
	Dagger
Throwing knives



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male





	
		Eye Color
	
	Green (film)



	
		Hair
	
	Dark blond (film)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Alan Ritchson







"We're not going by choice. You are our family, I don't see how anyone can love us better."
—Gloss in the victors' interviews[src]
Gloss was the male District 1 victor of the 63rd Hunger Games. He also participated as a Career Tribute in the 75th Hunger Games, also known as the third Quarter Quell.[2]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 63rd Hunger Games
1.2 75th Hunger Games

1.2.1 Training
1.2.2 Interview
1.2.3 Bloodbath
1.2.4 Alliance
1.2.5 Death




2 Victims
3 Family
4 Physical description
5 Etymology
6 Trivia
7 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who is Gloss in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						Gloss, a character in the Hunger Games series, emerges as the male victor of District 1 in the 63rd Hunger Games. He later partakes in the 75th Hunger Games, or the third Quarter Quell, as a Career Tribute. His good looks likely made him a favorite among sponsors. His sister, Cashmere, was the victor of the 64th Hunger Games. In the 'Catching Fire' film, Gloss is portrayed by Alan Ritchson.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What role does Gloss play in Catching Fire?
						
				
				
					
						Gloss, portrayed by Alan Ritchson, is a character in Catching Fire. He is a victor of the 63rd Hunger Games and returns as a Career Tribute in the 75th Hunger Games. From District 1, Gloss is skilled with a dagger and throwing knives. He is the brother of Cashmere, another tribute. He interacts with Katniss Everdeen during training for the 75th Hunger Games but is ultimately killed in the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the relationship between Cashmere and Gloss in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Gloss and Cashmere from the Hunger Games are siblings and former victors from District 1. They had a strong bond, often fighting together, with Cashmere appearing to be the dominant one. They were friends with other victors and may have mentored Glimmer and Marvel in the 74th Hunger Games. They were tributes in the 75th Hunger Games, where they were depicted as 'everyone's brother and sister'.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who portrayed Gloss in the Hunger Games film adaptation?
						
				
				
					
						Alan Ritchson, an American actor and singer, portrayed the character Gloss in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire film adaptation. In addition to this role, Ritchson has a notable modeling career and has appeared in TV shows like Smallville, 90210, and Blue Mountain State.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Gloss win the 63rd Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Gloss, the victor of the 63rd Hunger Games, was a male tribute from District 1. As a Career Tribute, he likely had an alliance with other Careers. His age and the tradition in District 1 suggest he volunteered for the Games. His attractive appearance and Career status likely earned him numerous sponsors. Throwing knives may have been his preferred weapon. His victory was succeeded by his sister Cashmere in the 64th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
63rd Hunger Games[]
Gloss participated in and won the 63rd Hunger Games, the year before his sister Cashmere won the 64th Hunger Games.[2][3] He volunteered as tribute,[1] as was common in District 1. He may have mentored his sister through her Games. Because of his Career Tribute status and good looks, Gloss probably had a lot of sponsors and killed a considerable amount of tributes.

75th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Gloss and Cashmere being reaped for the 75th Hunger Games. 		 	 
Gloss was reaped from the pool of existing victors from District 1 to participate in the 75th Hunger Games alongside his sister, Cashmere,[2] and wore a sheer silver tunic at his reaping.[4]
It is implied that both Gloss and Cashmere were friends with some of the existing victors.[5] Additionally, Gloss and his sister mentored Glimmer and Marvel in the 74th Hunger Games.[6]

Training[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Gloss in the Training Center 		 	 
He was present during training and spent a little time with Katniss Everdeen, when he and his sister invited her to practice making hammocks with them. Katniss described them as "polite but cool," and felt her attempts to connect with them were "mediocre at best". He stuck with his sister, and also mingled with the other stronger Career tributes and Peeta Mellark.[5] In the film, he showed exceptional skill with throwing knives.[4] Katniss said he got a very high training score, along with Cashmere.[7]

Interview[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Gloss's jacket from his interview. 		 	 Gloss was also present during the interviews, where he thanked the people of Panem for showing kindness to him and his sister.[7] In the film, he called the people of the Capitol his beloved family, and claimed that no one could love him better.[4] He and his sister were among the victors who were trying to show how betrayed they all felt through their interviews. He joined hands with the other tributes as a sign of strength.[8][4] He wore a dark silver jacket, black pants, and boots.[4]
Bloodbath[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Gloss running towards the Cornucopia. 		 	 
He was presumably a good swimmer, since he and Enobaria were the fourth and fifth people to make it to the Cornucopia. In the arena, Katniss noted that he wasn't particularly swift, as he was shot in the calf when he plunged into the waves trying to escape Katniss' arrows. This attack was not fatal; he managed to ignore the pain, and made it to the Cornucopia with his allies.[9]
In the film, Gloss nearly reached the Cornucopia at the same time as Katniss, but he tripped over a stone; when he reached the island, Katniss shot him in the calf.[4]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Gloss after he was shot in the calf. 		 	 
Alliance[]
Gloss was one of the members in the Career pack with Enobaria, Brutus, and his sister, Cashmere.[9] Soon after Finnick Odair, Peeta Mellark, Mags, and Katniss made their way out of the Cornucopia, Gloss and the other Careers made their way back there to pick off more tributes. After the bloodbath, the Career pack retreated to the jungle.

Death[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Gloss being killed by Katniss, shortly after he killed Wiress. 		 	 
The Career pack later made their way to the Cornucopia on day 2, ambushing the rebel alliance. Gloss slit the throat of Wiress while she was singing alone at the waterside, earning him an arrow in the temple,[10] though in the film, he was shot in the chest.[4] Shortly afterwards, his body was thrown into the water when the Cornucopia spun.[10]
Gloss placed 11th out of 24 tributes, while his sister placed 10th.

Victims[]
Since Gloss was a Career tribute, he most likely killed many tributes in his original Games and during the third Quarter Quell. On Day 2, he killed Wiress, which led to his own death.[10]

Family[]

"There's the classically beautiful brother and sister from District 1 who were victors two consecutive years when I was little."
—Katniss on Gloss and Cashmere.[src]
Cashmere, his sister, was the only person mentioned in Gloss's family, both sharing a close relationship. Gloss and Cashmere won consecutive Games, and were presumably highly honored by District 1, as Career Districts honor their victors.

Physical description[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Cashmere and Gloss. 		 	 
Gloss and his sister, Cashmere, were both described as being classically beautiful.[2] He had blond hair like his sister. Considering that both were Career tributes, Gloss and Cashmere were physically stronger than most of the other victors, being relatively young and from pampered District 1.

Etymology[]
"Gloss" is a word referring to the shine of a smooth surface. This reflects District 1's manufacture of luxury items.

Trivia[]
Cashmere and Gloss are the only known pair of siblings who have both separately won the Hunger Games.
Enobaria, Gloss, Cashmere, and Finnick consecutively won the 62nd, 63rd, 64th, and 65th Hunger Games.
On Capitol Couture, it was revealed that Cashmere won the 64th Hunger Games,[3] and since Finnick won the 65th Hunger Games, Gloss had to have won the 63rd.
In the films, Gloss was the tallest tribute with the biggest build, like Brutus.[4]
Cashmere and Gloss were interviewed together by Caesar Flickerman in the film,[4] while in the book they were interviewed separately.[7]
Gloss and Marvel from the 74th Hunger Games are quite similar. They were both shot in the neck by Katniss in the books because they killed Katniss's female ally.[11][10] In the movies, they are both shot in the chest.[4]
Gloss was the last tribute Katniss killed in the 75th Hunger Games, or in any Hunger Games.
In a behind the scenes featurette, Gloss's actor Alan Ritchson mentioned that he and Cashmere's actress, Stephanie Leigh Schlund, had quickly developed a "brotherly-sisterly kind of love". They messed around with each other on set, which created the sense of a real sibling relationship.[12]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Hunger Games: The Exhibition - see image

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ 3.0 3.1 https://tumblr.com/capitolcouture/62941926908

↑ 4.00 4.01 4.02 4.03 4.04 4.05 4.06 4.07 4.08 4.09 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ 5.0 5.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ The Hunger Games: The Exhibition - see image

↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 17

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ 9.0 9.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 19

↑ 10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 Catching Fire, Chapter 23

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 18

↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire - Catching Fire's New Cast (behind the scenes featurette)





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





