

Greasy Sae


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Vendor at the HobCook



	
		Home
	
	District 12District 13 (briefly)



	
		Relatives
	
	Unnamed granddaughter



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger GamesCatching FireMockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games (film)The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Sandra Ellis Lafferty







"Once it's in the soup, I'll call it beef."
—Greasy Sae to Katniss Everdeen and Gale Hawthorne on the trade of a wild dog[src]
Greasy Sae is a "bony" old woman who sold bowls of hot soup from a large kettle at the Hob in District 12. Katniss Everdeen and Gale Hawthorne traded with her often and made a conscious effort to keep on good terms with her, as she could consistently be counted on to buy wild dog. One of Greasy Sae's winter specialties included mice meat, pig entrails, and tree bark.[1] She also made a wild dog and rhubarb stew.[2]
Greasy Sae has a granddaughter who wandered the Hob and was generally treated as a pet by the people there, receiving scraps of food from their stands.[3] After the Second Rebellion, Greasy Sae cooked for Katniss in her home and helped her recuperate, bringing her granddaughter along.[4]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 The Hunger Games
1.2 Catching Fire
1.3 Mockingjay


2 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What kind of soup does Greasy Sae sell in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Greasy Sae sells diverse soups at the Hob in District 12. Her soups, made from various ingredients, include a winter specialty with mice meat, pig entrails, and tree bark. She also prepares gourd and bean, wild dog and rhubarb, and mincemeat soups. Any meat in her soup is referred to as beef.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who are the main characters that Greasy Sae interacts with in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Greasy Sae interacts with key characters like Katniss, to whom she provides the mockingjay pin. Gale is another character she interacts with, as he rescues her from a Peacekeeper. She also has a connection with Peeta, initiating a collection to sponsor him and Katniss in the 74th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is Greasy Sae's winter specialty in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Greasy Sae is recognized for her unique winter specialty. This dish comprises mice meat, pig entrails, and tree bark. Additionally, she is known for her stew made from wild dog and rhubarb, and refers to any meat in her soup as 'beef'.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How does Greasy Sae contribute to the economy of District 12 in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Greasy Sae, a vendor at the Hob in District 12, supports the economy by trading goods. She backs Katniss and Peeta in the 74th Hunger Games, indirectly enhancing the local economy as Katniss frequents various vendors. Following the bombing of District 12, she works in District 13's kitchen. Upon her return to District 12, she continues to contribute through cooking and housekeeping tasks.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What unusual ingredients does Greasy Sae use in her cooking in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Greasy Sae is recognized for her unconventional cooking ingredients. She prepares a winter dish with mice meat, pig entrails, and tree bark. Another notable recipe is a stew made from wild dog and rhubarb. She labels any meat as beef when it's incorporated into her soup.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
The first time Katniss Everdeen and Gale Hawthorne killed a deer, they had taken the carcass into the Hob, where people began to bid on parts and cut off pieces without permission. Greasy Sae had to intervene and send them to the butcher.[5]
About six months before the reaping, Greasy Sae made a below-standard soup using stock from the bones of a wild dog Katniss and Gale had shot a week earlier. Greasy Sae and Katniss laughed about Darius's ridiculous flirtations.[6]

The Hunger Games[]
On their way home from the woods on the morning of the reaping, Katniss and Gale traded half of their greens with Greasy Sae for some paraffin chunks.[7]
In the film, Katniss bought her mockingjay pin from Greasy Sae, then gave it to Primrose Everdeen, who later returned it to Katniss.[8]

Catching Fire[]
Greasy Sae started up a collection in the Hob to help sponsor Katniss and Peeta Mellark during the 74th Hunger Games. Katniss helped repay that kindness by continuing to shop in the Hob and making it a point to visit as many vendors as possible. Greasy Sae also reminded Katniss that during her participation in the 74th Hunger Games, Gale was considered her "cousin."[9] After the Hob was burned down, Katniss wanted to check on Greasy Sae, but Peeta shut down the idea.[10] Greasy Sae was one of the people Katniss made it a priority to help feed during the food shortages in District 12.[11]
In the film, she was pushed onto the ground by a Peacekeeper. Before he could beat her, Gale jumped on the Peacekeeper, saving her, but in retaliation, he was publicly flogged by Romulus Thread.[12]

Mockingjay[]
Greasy Sae was among the 800 survivors Gale evacuated after District 12 was bombed by the Capitol following the end of the Quarter Quell. She worked in the kitchen in District 13, which she liked well enough, but she noted that the cooks were lacking in imagination.[2] She was happy to receive real beef from District 10, noting that it was far better than the wild dog that Gale and Katniss used to provide her with.[13] When Haymitch called people together to tell stories of what Katniss had done to inspire them, Greasy Sae was among them.[14] During Finnick Odair and Annie Cresta's wedding, she got up and started dancing with Gale.[15]
Following the war, Greasy Sae was one of the few hundred people who returned to District 12. Once Katniss returned to her home in the Victors' Village, Greasy Sae came over in the morning and evening to cook and do light housekeeping. She also brought her granddaughter, who appeared to live "in her own world." Katniss was unsure whether this arrangement occurred because Greasy Sae was being neighborly or because she had been paid. Greasy Sae encouraged Katniss to go hunting for the first time in many months and updated her with news about Gale. Later, Peeta showed up to Katniss's door with Greasy Sae.[4]

References[]


↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 4

↑ 2.0 2.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 4

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 21

↑ 4.0 4.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 27

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 20

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 14

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 1

↑ The Hunger Games film

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 1

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 9

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 10

↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire script

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 17

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 6

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 16







