

Hazelle Hawthorne


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	WasherwomanHaymitch Abernathy's housekeeper



	
		Home
	
	District 12District 13 (briefly)



	
		Relatives
	
	Mr. Hawthorne (husband)Gale Hawthorne (son)Rory Hawthorne (son)Vick Hawthorne (son)Posy Hawthorne (daughter)



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger GamesCatching FireMockingjay







"I like Hazelle. Respect her. The explosion that killed my father took out her husband as well, leaving her with three boys and a baby due any day. Less than a week after she gave birth she was out hunting the streets for work."
—Katniss Everdeen about Hazelle[src]
Hazelle Hawthorne is the widowed mother of Gale, Rory, Vick, and Posy.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Family
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Hazelle Hawthorne's occupation in District 12?
						
				
				
					
						In District 12, Hazelle Hawthorne held the occupation of a washerwoman. Following her husband's demise, she additionally served as Haymitch Abernathy's housekeeper.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Hazelle Hawthorne's husband die?
						
				
				
					
						Mr. Hawthorne, Hazelle's husband, lost his life in a devastating mine accident, which also took Mr. Everdeen's life. This incident happened five years prior to the 74th Hunger Games. He was either vaporized or shattered in the accident. At this time, Hazelle was expecting their fourth child, Posy.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What impact did the coal mining accident have on Hazelle Hawthorne's life?
						
				
				
					
						Hazelle Hawthorne's life was significantly affected by the coal mining accident that claimed her husband's life. As a widow with four children, she had to seek employment shortly after childbirth. She labored intensively as a washerwoman in District 12's Seam to provide for her family.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who are Hazelle Hawthorne's children?
						
				
				
					
						Hazelle Hawthorne, a widow, is the mother to Gale, Rory, Vick, and Posy. Following her husband's demise in a mining accident, she labored relentlessly to sustain her family in District 12. Hazelle and her children survived the bombing of District 12 and relocated to District 13.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What hardships did Hazelle Hawthorne face as a washerwoman?
						
				
				
					
						Following her husband's death in a mining accident, Hazelle Hawthorne was left with three sons and an unborn child. She sought work shortly after childbirth, becoming a washerwoman. She worked exhaustively, collecting, laundering, and returning people's clothes. In winter, her hands would crack and bleed without a salve. Her business thrived until her oldest son, Gale, was caught poaching and severely whipped, impacting her income.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Hazelle lived and worked in the Seam of District 12. Her husband died in the same coal mining accident that killed Katniss Everdeen's father one January,[1] when her oldest child, Gale, was fourteen.[2]
Hazelle "worked her fingers to the bone" as a washerwoman. She would collect people's dirty laundry, wash it, and then return it to the owner. In the winter, her hands got so red and cracked that they would bleed without a salve from Mrs. Everdeen.[2] Hazelle's business did rather well until Gale was caught poaching and was brutally whipped.[3] Hazelle came to the Katniss's house in the Victors' Village, where Gale was being treated, and comforted him through his pain.[4] Soon afterward, Posy contracted the measles. Afraid to associate with the family because of the whipping, people stopped using Hazelle's services, and Rory had to sign up for tesserae. However, Katniss soon convinced Haymitch Abernathy to take Hazelle on as a housekeeper, earning her extra money and increasing Haymitch's standard of living.[5]
Hazelle and her family were among the few people who survived the bombing of District 12, and they were evacuated to District 13.[6]

Family[]
Hazelle was devoted to her family. Her husband died in a horrible mine accident, the same one that killed Katniss' father, leaving her alone at home with her three children. She was already pregnant with Posy and was only a few days away from giving birth. Gale, the oldest, helped take care of the family, bringing in food and money by hunting with Katniss. Her sons, Gale and Rory, also helped by applying for tessera when they turned twelve, although it is mentioned that Hazelle and Gale did not want Rory to take tesserae. Vick and Posy, her youngest children, were her reason for working so hard. When her only daughter Posy fell ill with measles, Hazelle worked extremely hard to nurse her back to health, and thankfully, Posy recovered. When Gale was whipped and taken to the Everdeen house, Hazelle went to stay with him. It is known that Hazelle and the rest of her children escaped the District 12 bombing. They are seen in District 13. In fact, her youngest child, Posy, is the one to comfort Octavia after she is released from President Coin's capture with Katniss' other stylists, saying that she looks very pretty.

Etymology[]
Hazelle might have been named after the hazel bush, and her surname comes from hawthorn bushes or trees, but could also be a reference to author Nathaniel Hawthorne.

Trivia[]
Hazelle appears in a deleted scene just after Katniss gets the mockingjay pin in the Hob where she is fighting with a Peacekeeper for an unknown reason.
References[]


↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 2

↑ 2.0 2.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 1

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 7

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 8

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 9

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 1





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





