

Heavensbee mansion


	
		Location
	
	The Capitol



	
		Inhabitants
	
	Heavensbee familyTrajan HeavensbeeHilarius HeavensbeePlutarch HeavensbeeSeveral Avoxes


	Appearances


	
		Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping







"I think about how many people spent their lives building this place, how many died before its completion, so that the Heavensbees could have somewhere to hang their pictures. Their smug, satisfied, ridiculous pictures. Well, the joke's on the Heavensbees. Now they're dead, too."
—Haymitch Abernathy's impression of the mansion[src]
The Heavensbee mansion was a large mansion in the Capitol that took up a whole block and was owned by the Heavensbee family.

Contents

1 History
2 Description

2.1 Known objects held in Heavensbee portraits


3 References



History[]
A year or two prior to the 50th Hunger Games, a committee of Gamemakers toured the conservatory and gardens, focusing on the flowering plants as inspiration for the arena. They discussed opening the berms.[1]
Haymitch Abernathy was taken to the mansion following his first day of training, having specially been ordered there by President Snow following his actions during the chariot rides.[2] Plutarch Heavensbee greeted him and showed him to the library and the conservatory, the latter of which held hints to the poisonous beauty of the 50th Hunger Games arena.[3]
Noticing Snow's ill pallor, Plutarch offered him a chair, but Snow simply vomited into the fountain. Plutarch and Haymitch then took him into the library. After being sent to retrieve milk from the fridge, Haymitch surreptitiously drank the milk, holding out the empty pitcher. He was then left alone to talk with a violently ill Snow while Plutarch went to retrieve more milk. Snow inspected Haymitch's flint striker and asked about his girlfriend before calling in Lou Lou, the replacement of Louella McCoy, who had died during the Tribute Parade.[3]
Following the interviews, Plutarch invited the District 12 tributes, Drusilla Sickle, and Effie Trinket to his mansion under the guise of taking photos. He took Haymitch to the conservatory and gave him the telephone, which he used to talk to Lenore Dove.[1] Plutarch then gave Haymitch tips about the arena. Back in the library, the tributes posed for shots and discussed techniques to get sponsors.[4]

Description[]
The mansion was a block wide and made of white marble. A pair of large wooden doors inlaid with golden stars faced the street, with two men in violet uniforms acting as doormen.[2] The entryway had a high ceiling and a soft carpet, along with giant urns filled with flowers. Following the entrance was a long hallway, lined with life-sized paintings of deceased Heavensbees holding a unique object. Along the way were several rooms full of elegant furniture and crystal lights.[3]
Trajan Heavensbee's portrait oversaw the library, which was lined with floor-to-ceiling shelves carrying thousands of books. A golden spiral staircase led to a balcony that ran around the room, with a gold eagle positioned on the railing at the top of the stairs. A desk built into the bookshelves had a hidden layer with drinks underneath, which could be accessed by turning a knob shaped like a goat's head. The library also contained an embroidered couch, as well as a bar with a refrigerator.[3] It was lit by candles.[4]
The conservatory could be reached via a narrow hallway. It had a domed glass ceiling, as well as glass walls, a fountain, and several tables and chairs covered in curlicues. One of these tables featured a telephone shaped like a sleeping swan. Although the garden outside was filled with flowers, the room itself housed many birds and plants, including a pitcher plant labeled NEPENTHES. There was a powder room nearby.[3]
Several Avoxes were employed to take care of the building.[3]

Known objects held in Heavensbee portraits[]
A scale
A harp
A ruby-studded cup
A leafy branch
A glossy white bird
A sword
A turkey leg
An open book (Trajan Heavensbee)[3]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 13

↑ 2.0 2.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 8

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 9

↑ 4.0 4.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 14






