

Heddle


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	13 (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute



	
		Home
	
	District 8



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female



	
		Height
	
	5'7" (film)[1]




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games (film)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Mackenzie Lintz (film)Sophia Ally (stage)





Heddle was the female tribute from District 8 who participated in the 74th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Tribute Parade
1.1.2 Training
1.1.3 Cornucopia bloodbath
1.1.4 The Games




2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the District 8 female's costume during the Tribute Parade in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games Tribute Parade, the District 8 female donned a jester-themed costume. It was colored pink and blue, adorned with a star pattern and bow hats.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of the jester and star pattern on the District 8 female's costume?
						
				
				
					
						The District 8 female's costume, adorned with a jester motif and star pattern, represents District 8's textile industry. The vibrant hues and 1960s urban American style elements signify the district's unique fashion sense, showcased during the Tribute Parade.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why were the District 8 female's appearances in the Training Center omitted in the film?
						
				
				
					
						The film omits the District 8 female's training scenes, likely for narrative focus. A deleted scene reveals her running on gauntlets, falling, and splitting her lip, an event mocked by tributes like Glimmer and Cato. Her participation in further training remains unclear.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did Peeta kill the District 8 female in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, the District 8 female was mortally wounded by Cato, a Career tribute. Peeta Mellark, another tribute, is reported to have 'finished her off'. Yet, it remains unclear if he directly caused her death. The delay in her death could be attributed to her prolonged dying or a strategic move by the Gamemakers for a more exciting battle.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
74th Hunger Games[]
Tribute Parade[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			District 8 tributes in their tribute parade costumes. 		 	 
In the film, Heddle was first seen in the Tribute Parade with her tribute partner, wearing pink and blue costumes that symbolize jesters and fabrics with a star pattern and bow hats on them. She was seen in quite a few shots during parade scenes, waving at the audience.

Training[]
The film omits all of her appearances in the Training Center.

Cornucopia bloodbath[]
Heddle survived the initial Cornucopia bloodbath, and managed to escape into the forest. It is unknown if she was able to grab any supplies or weapons before leaving the Cornucopia.

The Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Heddle lighting a fire. 		 	 

"A stone's throw from the biggest idiot in the Games."
—Katniss Everdeen after the girl lit the fire.
She watched the Fallen images and tried to sleep, but she gave in to the cold and starts a fire near a tree which Katniss Everdeen was resting in, which she thought was a "foolish" decision. Sure enough, the light from her fire attracted the Career tributes to her location during early morning. In the movie, Cato hands Glimmer his sword and she stabs her to death, and after Katniss heard her scream, the cannon sounded. In the book, she is stabbed. The Careers leave to allow them to take the body, but after hearing no cannon, they become uneasy and begin arguing. Peeta goes back to finish her off. She placed 13th out of 24 in the book and 12th out of 24 in the film.

Trivia[]
In the scoreboard, she was 13 years old, and weighed 116 pounds.[1]
In the tribute parade, the females were standing on the left of the chariot and the males on the right except for District 8 where she stood on the right and the male on the left.
In the film, her death was unintentionally foreshadowed by Haymitch when he was giving advice to Peeta on how to survive the games. Peeta mentions the idea of lighting a fire in a cold environment while Haymitch shoots it down by saying; "Well that's a great way to get killed", foreshadowing Heddle's death as she lit a fire in a dark and cold environment which led to the Career tributes in finding and killing her.
Heddle, the District 9 tributes, and the District 10 female were considered extra characters and they only had shots in the parade scene but she appears during the first night. She is also the only extra character to survive the bloodbath.
She lasted 8 hours, 12 minutes and 8 seconds in the Hunger Games.
She was Peeta's only known direct kill in the 74th Hunger Games.
When she died, on the scoreboard behind Caesar, an incorrect order of deaths can be seen: District 9 male; District 3 female; District 9 female; Jason; District 5 male; District 6 female; Stele; District 7 female; District 8 male; District 10 female; Tippet; Bravura.
She, along with Cato, was one of the tributes in the 74th Hunger Games to be mortally wounded and then mercifully killed. She was mortally wounded by Cato and then mercifully killed by Peeta in the book, while Cato was mauled by mutts, and mercifully killed by Katniss.
The night that Katniss was without a sleeping bag, she began to "have more sympathy" for Heddle.
In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire she, like her district partner, appears as a holographic portrait in the Victory Tour.
In the Victory Tour, there is only one man and one woman standing in her pedestal, so Heddle has no siblings, and in the pedestal of her district partner there is only one man, so the District 8 male from the 74th Hunger Games has no mother or siblings.
In The Hunger Games On Stage, her name is Heddle. A heddle is the part of a loom that all warp threads pass through.
In the original West End production, Primrose Everdeen's actress Sophia Ally also plays Heddle.
Gallery[]
District 8 tributes at the chariot ridesHeddle's picture is shown on the boardHeddle's face on a hologramTribute Identification Card
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 File:Full stats board.png






