

Hilarius Heavensbee


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	18 (The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes)



	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Plutarch Heavensbee (relative) 
Trajan Heavensbee (ancestor)



	
		Fate
	
	Presumed deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Florian Burgkart





Hilarius Heavensbee was a male resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. He was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. He was assigned the female tribute from District 8, Wovey.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Hilarius Heavensbee play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Hilarius Heavensbee, a top-performing senior at the Academy in the Capitol, served as a mentor. His mentee was Wovey, the female tribute from District 8, who utilized the strategy of hiding in the tunnels for most of the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Hilarius Heavensbee's wealth affect his perspective on the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						As a part of the ultrarich Heavensbee family, Hilarius Heavensbee's wealth likely shaped his viewpoint on the Hunger Games. He mentored Wovey from District 8 during the 10th Hunger Games, indicating his active participation. The exact influence of his wealth on his perspective is not explicitly detailed.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Hilarius Heavensbee's relationship with his tribute, Wovey?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Hilarius Heavensbee served as mentor to Wovey, the female tribute from District 8. He expressed concern for her survival, suggesting a professional relationship. Wovey's strategy of hiding in the tunnels during the Games may have restricted their interaction.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of Heavensbee Hall in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games narrative, Heavensbee Hall is a crucial site named after the affluent Heavensbee family. It was established during the post-First Rebellion school reconstruction. The hall was a hub for the 10th Hunger Games mentors, where they watched the Reaping ceremonies, met their tributes, and observed the Games. It also hosted interviews with mentors following key events.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]

"Mine's a runt. Wovey, she calls herself. Well, I tried to train old Wovey for the interview, but zero personality. No one's backed her, so I can't feed her, even if she can avoid the others."
—Hilarius speaking to Festus Creed about Wovey[src]
Despite his family's extreme wealth, he always seemed to feel oppressed, bemoaning his assignment to a girl from a poorer district. He believed Wovey had no personality and was concerned about her lack of support in the Capitol. He hoped that she would make it to the final twelve so his parents were not disappointed in him.
Before the Games began, Hilarius engaged in discussion with Festus Creed about female tributes, with Hilarius believing female tributes are weaker than the male tributes, thus have a large disadvantage.[1]
When the Games began, Hilarius grew concerned that nobody had seen Wovey for a significant period of time, and that he would be unable to send her food or water as a result. He was the only mentor that seemed to be in the mood to talk about the Games directly, and wouldn't shut up about it.[2] He eventually spotted her and sent her food and water, speaking lengthily about Wovey's merits to Lepidus Malmsey and presenting her absence as stealth. However, she collapsed and died shortly after drinking from a bottle of water on the ground, having consumed poison left out by Lucy Gray Baird. While Hilarius was disappointed, he acknowledged that things could have gone worse, as his tribute made it to eighth place.[3]
Forty years later, President Snow mentioned Hilarius to Haymitch Abernathy while they were talking about the Heavensbees. He called Hilarius a "useless whiner".[4]

Etymology[]
Hilarius was a Western Roman official who was praefectus urbi (urban prefect) of Rome in AD 408. It is also the name of a number of Christian saints, bishops, and priests – including a pope – who lived during late antiquity. "Heavensbee" likely refers to the spiritual domain of Heaven.

Trivia[]
In Sunrise on the Reaping, he is confirmed to be related to Plutarch Heavensbee.[4]
The Heavensbees were noted to maintain their wealthy status during the Dark Days.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ 4.0 4.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 9




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






