

Homes


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	An "older guy"[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Soldier



	
		Home
	
	District 13



	
		Weapon
	
	Gun



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Omid Abtahi





Homes was a rebel soldier from District 13 assigned to the sharpshooter propaganda unit, Squad 451.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Personality
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Homes' role in the rebel soldier unit from District 13 in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Homes served as a rebel soldier from District 13. He was part of the sharpshooter propaganda unit, Squad 451, and underwent several days of training prior to the Battle of the Capitol. Homes showcased his courage when he pushed Katniss Everdeen aside to provide first aid to a fellow soldier during a dangerous situation.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who did Homes save during the Battle of the Capitol in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Battle of the Capitol, Homes rescued Katniss Everdeen. When Boggs triggered a pod that severed his legs, Homes swiftly moved Katniss out of harm's way and administered first aid to Boggs. Later, he prevented Katniss from risking her life for Jackson and Leeg 1, advising her to honor their sacrifice instead.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What training did Homes undergo before his deployment for the Battle of the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						Living in District 13, Homes was part of Squad 451. He participated in extensive training for several days prior to his deployment in the Battle of the Capitol, a key event in the Hunger Games. His training was crucial when he swiftly provided first aid to Boggs following a pod explosion.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Homes lived in District 13, and he was assigned to Squad 451. He trained alongside his new compatriots for several days before deployment for the Battle of the Capitol.[1] On their sixth morning in the Capitol, after Boggs stepped onto a pod that instantly blew off his legs, Homes pushed Katniss Everdeen aside and grabbed a first-aid kit, attempting to use a compression bandage on one of Boggs's legs and a tourniquet on the other. When a black, tar-like substance flooded the street, he and Katniss dragged Boggs into an apartment. After Boggs died, Homes testified to Jackson that Boggs had truly transferred the Holo's prime security clearance over to Katniss. As they left the apartment, Homes carried Peeta Mellark, who was unconscious after losing control of himself.[2]
At the second apartment the squad took refuge in, Homes jimmied the lock to let the others enter and deposited Peeta on the sofa. Shortly afterward, he was falsely pronounced dead along with the rest of the squad on an emergency broadcast from the Capitol.[2]
When Jackson and Leeg 1 went missing in the Transfer, Homes informed Katniss that they'd stayed behind at a pod known as the Meat Grinder to hold off the lizard mutts. Katniss attempted to go back for them, but Homes stopped her, telling her not to waste their sacrifice and that it was already too late. Soon after, Homes was decapitated by the vicious muttations himself.[3]

Physical description[]
Homes and Mitchell were both described as "older guys".[1] He was also strong enough to carry Peeta.[2]

Personality[]
According to Katniss, he and Mitchell never said much, but they could "shoot the dust off your boots at fifty yards", characterizing them as excellent marksmen.[1] Homes also kept a level head under pressure; he was able to act immediately and efficiently to render medical aid to Boggs,[2] and he was pragmatic even in the face of the deaths of his fellow soldiers, though not to the point of cruelty.[3] 

Trivia[]
Homes knew how to pick locks.[2]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Mockingjay, Chapter 18

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 Mockingjay, Chapter 20

↑ 3.0 3.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 22






