The nation of Panem within the Hunger Games universe is known to have an abjectly poor record on human rights. 
Basic civil liberties and political freedoms are virtually non-existent throughout the nation, and the government, for most of its history, was known to be a totalitarian dictatorship, a police state in which the central government of Panem, also known as the Capitol, wielded absolute, unchecked power over its 12 (formerly 13) districts, all of which are subservient to its rule and where citizens are subject to totalitarian rule, with nearly every aspect of their lives governed by the Capitol, from work to housing. 
Following the victory of the Second Rebellion and the creation of a constitutional republic, it is clear that the situation regarding human rights in Panem has substantially improved, with citizens of the districts gaining newfound political freedoms, including the right to vote for their representatives through free elections. The exact structure of the Republic, however, is not fully revealed, although it is clear that the president remains the chief executive of the government and it is implied that a legislative body is created, on top of a judiciary.

Contents

1 Summary

1.1 Elections
1.2 Freedom of Expression
1.3 Freedom of Religion
1.4 Freedom of Assembly
1.5 Freedom of the Press
1.6 Freedom of Movement
1.7 The Right to Keep and Bear Arms
1.8 The Right to Trial by Jury
1.9 Freedom from Cruel and Unusual Punishment
1.10 Academic Freedom





Summary[]
For most of its history, the nation of Panem was known to have a horrific record on human rights, given its constant surveillance over its citizens, the deprivation of the most basic civil liberties, as well as the near non-existence of political freedom. The regime was a totalitarian dictatorship and a police state, which employed massive surveillance over its populace as well as the use of a heavily militarized police force called the Peacekeepers to enforce its control. Basic civil liberties were routinely violated, and citizens had little recourse for such violations.

Elections[]
Prior to the victory of the Second Rebellion, elections were virtually unheard of in Panem, although it is not known if they took place in the Capitol. The citizens of the districts were known to be completely deprived of their political rights and freedoms, and their local authorities, such as the Mayor, were appointed by the Capitol rather than chosen through popular elections. This ensured that they had no recourse against the brutal oppression and enslavement imposed upon them by the regime. It is unknown how the president, the chief executive of the central government, is given power. 

Freedom of Expression[]
The Capitol was known to prohibit any form of expression of opposition or defiance to its rule. Children from the districts were taught from a young age to not voice their opinions on political matters, especially dissenting opinions. As an example, the father of Lucy Gray Baird was executed for having spoken his mind freely. Expressing any form of criticism to the rule of the Capitol was seen as treasonous, seditious, or rebellious, and offenders who were caught faced heavy punishments, including torture and the death penalty.
Such a rule applied not only to the districts, but also to the Capitol as well. Despite the preferential treatment and wealth, Capitol citizens are policed just as heavily as the districts, and those who openly expressed opposition to the ruling government faced dire consequences. 

Freedom of Religion[]
Religion is noted to be largely absent in the Hunger Games universe, with no mention of God, deities, Heaven, Hell, or the afterlife. There is no mention of organized religion in Panem whether they be churches, mosques, cathedrals, or temples. While some citizens of Panem might have held to such beliefs, the overwhelming majority are noted to be atheists or agnostics, showing no belief whatever in a higher power or in the afterlife. 
Religion was presumably forbidden by the Capitol, similar to all totalitarian states. None of the presidents of Panem commanded any sort of cult of personality nor were treated as gods by the general populace, and the prevailing belief in the nation was atheism. 

Freedom of Assembly[]
Except for official matters such as the reaping, watching the annual Hunger Games, and public whippings, public gatherings were largely prohibited throughout the districts and the Capitol. The Capitol was known to use force to suppress peaceful protests, including water cannon, batons, as well as firearms and live ammunition. Public gatherings were known to be extremely rare in the districts, as the citizens spent most of their time working as slaves in whatever industry the Capitol assigned them to.

Freedom of the Press[]
No independent media exists within Panem, as the only approved media outlets are state-run media, all of which show Capitol propaganda and serve to instill a sense of fear amongst the districts citizens and discourage rebellion or resistance. For example, they constantly replayed the same footage from District 13, never showing other districts nor the Capitol citizens the current state of the district, and Capitol media is used to feed misinformation, including the falsehood that District 13 was destroyed during the Dark Days. 
The use of state media serves a central role in the regime maintaining its grip on power through intimidation and indoctrination, as citizens never learn the exact truth but only what the Capitol wants them to hear. 

Freedom of Movement[]
It was prohibited for district citizens to leave their district or to travel to other districts or the Capitol. Such a right was reserved for the political elites, including the president as his cabinet, as well as for tributes and their mentors during the Hunger Games as well as the Victory Tours. The Peacekeepers, all of whom came from either the Capitol or District 2, could be deployed anywhere in the nation for their duties, whether it be the 12 districts or the Capitol itself, and were presumably deployed by either train or aircraft, although they are also known to make use of armored vehicles.
The Capitol citizens were also prohibited from traveling into the districts. 

The Right to Keep and Bear Arms[]
Weapon ownership is largely prohibited in Panem, with the exception of utilitarian weapons such as knives, or tools necessary for the industries of certain industries such as lumber (District 7) and fishing (District 4). 
The penalty for illegal weapons possession was death. 
Despite such a strict prohibition, several citizens of the districts are known to be illegally hoarding weapons, including firearms. For example, Katniss Everdeen was known to keep her bow and arrows hidden inside the woods rather than at home to avoid incurring the wrath of Peacekeepers. During his service as a Peacekeeper in District 12, Coriolanus Snow also stumbled upon a group of rebels, including Billy Taupe Clade and Spruce, who were not only hoarding a supply of firearms but were also aided and supported by Sejanus Plinth.
In addition, Arlo Chance was said to have concealed a handgun, which he used to kill two mine managers and a Peacekeeper in the film adaptation of The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. 

The Right to Trial by Jury[]
Panem citizens who were accused of crimes, usually by Peacekeepers, were often immediately captured and publicly executed for their acts, with no evidence that they were tried by jury. Extrajudicial executions at the hands of security forces are extremely common for a variety of crimes, including armed rebellion, dissent, in addition to fulfilling the direct orders of the president himself. 

Freedom from Cruel and Unusual Punishment[]
The Capitol was known to use torture on political dissidents and rebels, with many dying in the process of being tortured. 
Capital punishment was routinely employed for a variety of offenses, and executions were carried out through a variety of means, but generally through hanging and shooting. There was a long list of crimes punishable by death under the Capitol's rule, including dissent, armed rebellion, criticism of government, unauthorized travel between the districts, weapon ownership, and theft. 
Much of the time, executions took place in the form of extrajudicial killings by Peacekeepers, who were known to choose their victims randomly. For example, a mentally challenged boy named Martin was executed by Peacekeepers in District 11 for trying to keep a pair of night goggles. The Capitol was not known to set any minimum age nor exemptions from the death penalty, as all those who violated its laws were executed. 

Academic Freedom[]
Schools within the districts are extremely limited in curriculum, and serve as mostly indoctrination centers, similar to so-called educational institutions in most totalitarian states. Rather than educate students, they mostly serve to propagate Capitol propaganda to the young, where they are only taught the Capitol's narrative of events throughout the history of Panem, including the Dark Days. 
In the Capitol, there is known to be institutions of higher education, including the University. While Capitol citizens receive a higher level of education than the districts, they are still known to be fed state propaganda, and educators are required to instill loyalty to the regime in the minds of students and teach its curriculum.





