

Hy


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12-18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 5



	
		Weapon
	
	Machete (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Kittipong Ace Cunjanagan







"Remus Dolittle appeared to inform them that the boy tribute from District 5 had passed away in the night due to complications from asthma or some such—anyway, the veterinarian couldn't save him—and they had to go off and address his loss. Try as he might, Coriolanus couldn't remember the boy, or even which of his classmates had been assigned to mentor him."
—Coriolanus Snow describing Hy's death.[src]
Hy was the male tribute from District 5 during the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Dennis Fling.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death

1.1.1 Film adaptation




2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What district was Hy from in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Hy hailed from District 5. He was selected as the male tribute for the 10th Hunger Games. However, he succumbed to asthma complications before the Games began.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Hy's mentor during the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Dennis Fling served as the mentor to Hy, the male tribute from District 5. The mentorship program, which began with these Games, initially assigned top-performing Academy students as mentors.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Hy die before the start of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Hy, a tribute from District 5 in the 10th Hunger Games, succumbed to asthma complications on the eve of the Games. A veterinarian's efforts to save him were unsuccessful.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Where were the tributes, including Hy, taken to in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						Chosen tributes, including Hy, were first escorted to the Justice Building, then to a train station. They embarked on a train journey to the Capitol. At the Capitol, they were led to the Training Center and subsequently, the arena catacombs or Launch Room. This was the site for their final preparations before entering the arena via a sealed launch tube.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Hy grew up in District 5 and became his district's male tribute in the reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1]
Along with the other tributes, Hy was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2]

Death[]
Hy unexpectedly died of asthma complications the night before the Games. The veterinarian had attempted to save him, but wasn't able to.[3]

Film adaptation[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hy and Sol chasing Lucy Grey and Jessup Diggs. 		 	 
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, he survived to see the arena, but was killed in the bloodbath by Mizzen. When the gong rang, he decided to grab a weapon from the center. Hy fought with other tributes and was chased to the pile of weapons by Circ, who was then killed. Despite Hy trying to hide behind the structure, Otto saw and attacked him. Hy searched for Sol and the two ran towards the tunnels. They went after Lucy Gray Baird and Jessup Diggs, but the District 12 tributes squeezed through a door just before Coral's group appeared. Hy was caught in Mizzen's net and killed by Mizzen and Treech, placing 15th.[4]

Etymology[]
His name may refer to hydroelectricity, a form of power.

Trivia[]
The only time Hy is mentioned in The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes is when he dies and on the list of tributes throughout the book. This is the same for his mentor.
Unlike Dill, who was also very sick prior to the Games, Hy died before the Games started.
Hy is the only character known to have asthma.
Due to his health condition, it's possible that he died of untreated smoke inhalation from the Capitol Arena bombing.
Gallery[]
Hy in the Capitol Arena.Hy during the bloodbath.Hy's face on the monitor.Concept photos of Hy and Sol's outfits.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





