

Incitatus Loomy

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Parade master[1]



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping





Incitatus Loomy was the parade master for the 50th Hunger Games.

Biography[]
Incitatus Loomy was responsible for the Tribute Parade during the 50th Hunger Games. However, the Parade turned into a disaster as the nervous horses pulling the District 12 chariot were startled and bolted. They left a trail of wreckage as other chariots were hit by the rogue horses. A tribute, Louella McCoy was killed and the District 6 children were injured along with some Capitol spectators. Haymitch Abernathy turned it into a bigger spectacle when he ran with Louella's dead body to the house of President Snow in a statement against the Hunger Games.[2]
The next day, President Snow met with Incitatus. Later that day, Snow also met up with Haymitch and Plutarch Heavensbee while being violently ill and claimed he had eaten a bad batch of oysters with Incitatus but fared better than him. Plutarch was surprised and when he asked if it was parade master, Snow just responded "was he?" and changed the topic. [1] However, President Snow had poisoned the oysters to kill Incitatus and also ate it himself to draw him into a false sense of security. Haymitch deduced what had happened from Snow's comments during their conversation.[3]

Trivia[]
"Incitatus" is a Latin word meaning "swift," "at full gallop," or "impetuous."
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 9

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 8

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 10




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White






