

Io Jasper


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Seyna Sylla







"Nothing like that whiz Io Jasper, who seemed to have been born with a microscope attached to her eye. He was always gracious to Io, though, and as a result, she adored him. With unpopular people, such a minor effort went a long way."
—Coriolanus Snow's behavior towards Io[src]
Io Jasper was a female resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. She was assigned the male tribute from District 3, Circ.


	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Io Jasper play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Io Jasper, an Academy student from the Capitol, served as a mentor in the 10th Hunger Games. She was responsible for mentoring the male tribute from District 3, Circ. Her expertise in biology was well-known, and she often collaborated with Coriolanus Snow in this field.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Io Jasper's mentee in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Io Jasper, an exceptional senior from the Academy in the Capitol, mentored the male tribute from District 3, Circ.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why was Io Jasper considered a natural in biology?
						
				
				
					
						Io Jasper, an Academy student and Capitol resident, stood out for her natural aptitude in biology. Her exceptional performance led to her selection as a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games and partnership with Coriolanus Snow in a high-level biology class.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Io Jasper's relationship with Coriolanus Snow?
						
				
				
					
						Io Jasper, a top-performing senior at the Academy, partnered with Coriolanus Snow in a high biology class. Despite Snow's preference for solo work, he behaved graciously towards Io, earning her admiration. Io's strategic mind was evident when she mentored for the 10th Hunger Games, mirroring Snow's tactical acumen.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Io Jasper's status in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						Residing in the Capitol, Io Jasper was a distinguished senior at the Academy. She was chosen as a mentor in the 10th Hunger Games, responsible for the male tribute from District 3, named Circ. Her proficiency in biology led to a partnership with Coriolanus Snow in advanced biology studies.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
She was a natural when it came to biology and partnered with Coriolanus Snow at the high biology class at the Academy. Coriolanus felt that the she must have been born with a microscope attached to her eye. He hated working with a partner, but nevertheless behaved graciously around her, resulting in her adoration.[1]
During the interviews before the 10th Hunger Games began, her tribute, Circ, stated that he could start a fire with his glasses. With her scientific knowledge, Io suggested various angle and times of day that would facilitate the task.[2]
Her parents were scientists of some sort.[3] When Lucretius Flickerman interviewed Io, she discussed her thoughts on what Circ might do with the drone he had taken and altered, suggesting that he could use its lights to give him an advantage at night. However, she was interrupted when attention turned back to Reaper Ash, who had emerged from the barricade inside the arena.[4]
Her tribute, Circ, died after being bitten by snake mutts sent into the Capitol Arena by Dr. Volumnia Gaul. Snow regretted the loss of her presence, as she tended to be clinical rather than combative.[5]

Etymology[]
In Greek mythology, Io was one of the many mortal lovers of Zeus, the chief god of the Greek pantheon. Jasper is a kind of quartz often used as a gemstone.

References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






