

Iphigenia Moss


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Anni Baumann





Iphigenia Moss was a female resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. She was assigned the female tribute from District 5, Sol.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 References



Biography[]
Her father oversaw the Agriculture Department, which controlled the flow of food around Panem. She was considered "forgettable," and despite her father's job, always seemed to be on the verge of malnutrition. She gave her school lunches to classmates and even blacked out on occasion. Clemensia Dovecote told Coriolanus Snow that this was Iphigenia's revenge on her father, but did not provide any further details.[2]
When Sol emerged in the arena, Iphigenia began to send every bit of food she could, but her tribute was killed by a trident to the throat from Coral, the female tribute from District 4. Afterwards, she spoke briefly with Lepidus Malmsey of Capitol News, referring to her tribute as being named either "Sol, or maybe Sal" and saying that she had a funny accent. In response, Lepidus congratulated her on getting her tribute to the second half and mistakenly addressed her as "Albina."[2]

Etymology[]
Iphigenia was the eldest daughter of King Agamemnon, who led the campaign of the Trojan War. After he hunted one of Artemis's sacred stags, the goddess prevented the troops from reaching Troy unless King Agamemnon killed Iphigenia as a human sacrifice to the gods.

Trivia[]
Iphigenia has an unspecified eating disorder that most closely resembles anorexia.
Given that Clemensia characterizes Iphigenia's condition as "revenge" on her father, it's possible that he was abusing her.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






