

Isabelle Fuhrman

	
		
			
				
					
						
							2022
							
						
					
				
					
						
							2012
							
						
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
						
						
					
				
			
		
			
				
					
						
						
					
				
			
		
	




	
		Birth name
	
	Isabelle Fuhrman



	
		Character
	
	Clove



	
		Birthday
	
	February 25th, 1997



	
		Birthplace
	
	Washington, DC, U.S.A



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games film



	
		Years active
	
	2006–present



Isabelle Fuhrman is an American actress who portrayed Clove, the female tribute from District 2, in The Hunger Games film.[1] She is the daughter of journalist Elina Fuhrman and Nick Fuhrman. Also, she is the sister of Madeline Fuhrman.

Career[]
Fuhrman had originally auditioned for the role of Katniss Everdeen, but she was told that she was too young, as she was only 14. She was also told she was too old to portray Primrose Everdeen and got a callback asking if she wanted to audition for Clove instead. Many critics have praised her performance as Clove, identifying her as a breakout star.
Fuhrman began acting in 2006 and is best known for her role in the film Orphan, for which she received critical acclaim. She appears often in The Hunger Games: The Official Illustrated Movie Companion. 

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Fuhrman talks about being Clove in The Hunger Games 		 	 
Fuhrman co-starred with Will Smith and Jaden Smith in the film After Earth. Fuhrman's role, however, didn't make the final cut except for a small snippet of her next to Jaden Smith in the beginning. It was announced on the 15th of May 2012 that she would be starring in a remake of the 1977 horror classic, Suspiria. However, the movie got stuck in legal issues, preventing them from filming and producing the movie. She is in the film adaptation of Stephen King's novel, Cell, a science fiction/action movie, as Alice Maxwell. Fuhrman co-starred with Jessica Alba and Liana Liberato in the drama film Dear Eleanor, playing a character named Max.  
Fuhrman has also had experience on voice acting. She voiced Shoko in the hit Cartoon Network Series, Adventure Time, Shelly in Sammy's Adventure: The Secret Passage, and the video game, Hitman: Absolution as Victoria.

External links[]
 Isabelle Fuhrman on Wikipedia
 Isabelle Fuhrman at the Internet Movie Database
 Isabelle Fuhrman on X
Official Facebook Page
Isabelle's tumblr
References[]


↑ Brian Gallagher (05-11-2011). The Hunger Games Adds Alexander Ludwig and Isabelle Fuhrman. Movieweb. Retrieved on 05-12-2011.






