 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Jabberjay illustrations - Audobon Style - for President Snow's office, used in set dressing for The Hunger Games: Catching Fire.[1] 		 	 A jabberjay is an exclusively male bird muttation created in the Capitol by Dr. Kay to spy on enemies of the Capitol.[2] Jabberjays had the ability to memorize and repeat entire human conversations.[3]
Contents

1 Mechanics
2 History

2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes
2.2 Sunrise on the Reaping
2.3 Catching Fire


3 Appearance
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What is the purpose of the jabberjay in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, the Jabberjay is a male bird muttation developed by Dr. Kay in the Capitol for espionage, with the ability to memorize and replicate human conversations. During the 75th Hunger Games, the Capitol used Jabberjays to torment tributes Finnick Odair and Katniss Everdeen with mimicked screams of their loved ones. This bird eventually became emblematic of the Second Rebellion.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the difference between a jabberjay and a mockingjay?
						
				
				
					
						Jabberjays, male bird muttations, were created in the Capitol by Dr. Kay to memorize and repeat human dialogues for espionage. Mockingjays are accidental muttations, offspring of male jabberjays and female mockingbirds. They resemble jabberjays but have white patches under their wings and mimic songs and whistles, unlike jabberjays.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who created the jabberjay in the Hunger Games universe?
						
				
				
					
						The jabberjay, a bird muttation in the Hunger Games universe, was the creation of Dr. Kay from the Capitol. This exclusively male species was designed to spy on rebels during the First Rebellion, with the unique ability to memorize and replicate entire human dialogues. The jabberjay population was restored by the Capitol for the 75th Hunger Games, where they were deployed in a sector of the clock arena.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Are jabberjays based on real birds?
						
				
				
					
						Jabberjays from the Hunger Games are fictional, not based on real birds. They were invented in the Capitol by Dr. Kay as a tool for espionage during the First Rebellion. These male bird muttations could memorize and reproduce human conversations, but their use was stopped when the districts learned of their function and started to provide misleading information.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How do jabberjays mimic human conversations in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Jabberjays, male bird muttations created by Dr. Kay in the Capitol, can memorize and repeat full human conversations. They can mimic any sound, from high-pitched to deep tones. In the 75th Hunger Games, the jabberjays were used to mimic the screams of tributes' loved ones.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Mechanics[]
While in record mode, they were silent, but in neutral mode, they acted like normal birds.
By default, jabberjays were set on "neutral." This meant that if they heard a human voice, they would repeat it, but would quickly move on to something else, such as another voice or a snatch of birdsong. Before the end of the Dark Days, the jabberjays were all released into the wild on neutral. In order for them to work for spying, they had to be placed on "record." In this mode, the bird would fall entirely silent and stay at attention until was placed back on "neutral." Once this was done, another command could be executed to get to recite everything that it had recorded. All three commands were accomplished using tones which were inaudible to human beings, but easily registered by the birds. On a good day, a single bird could record for up to an hour.[2]

History[]
During the Dark Days, the birds were released around District 9, District 11, District 12, and "wherever [the Capitol] thought they'd be of value", in order to record in places that could not easily be bugged with microphones. They were recalled to the laboratory in the dead of night so no one would notice. However, rebels worked out that the birds were spies and fed the Capitol false information.[2] Following the failure of this project, Dr. Kay released the birds into the wild on neutral.[2] Exclusively male, jabberjays were not meant to be able to reproduce, but they mated with female mockingbirds and created the mockingjay.[3]

The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes[]
Coriolanus Snow and other District 12 Peacekeepers were assigned the task of helping scientists catch and care for 50 jabberjays and 50 mockingjays.[4] The jabberjays were relatively easy to catch, and despite being ten years since they had switched settings by remote control, they still worked. Dr. Kay demonstrated this for Coriolanus by recording their conversation and playing it back.[2]
Later, Coriolanus used a jabberjay to record Sejanus Plinth[5] admitting his escape plan, and he worried whether Sejanus would notice why the bird was so silent. When the 100 birds were sent to the Capitol, Dr. Gaul caught the recording, leading to Sejanus's arrest and execution.[6]

Sunrise on the Reaping[]
Following the death of Louella McCoy, President Snow replaced her with a doppelganger who came to be known as "Lou Lou." Haymitch Abernathy and the other tributes of District 12 quickly realized that the Capitol had implanted a device in one of her ears that allowed them to listen in on anything she heard. Haymitch compared her to a jabberjay, realizing that he and the others could potentially use Lou Lou to feed the Capitol false information in the same manner the jabberjays had been used.[7]

Catching Fire[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 	 
By the 75th Hunger Games, the Capitol had replenished the jabberjay population. In the 4 to 5 o'clock section, the birds mimicked the screams of tributes' loved ones, luring in Finnick Odair and Katniss Everdeen. A transparent barrier kept them inside, forcing them to listen to the torturously realistic shrieks of Annie Cresta, Primrose Everdeen, Katniss' mother, Madge Undersee, and Gale, Rory, Vick, and Posy Hawthorne. After 5:00 had passed, Katniss worried that the Capitol had tortured their loved ones to produce screams for the jabberjays to memorize, but Peeta Mellark and Beetee Latier assured Katniss and Finnick that the Capitol had used digital or mechanical means to warp their voices into screams, their voices being taken from the words said in the final 8 interviews with the remaining tributes' families.[8]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			A jabberjay beside costume design sketches for Mockingjay - Part 1. 		 	 
Appearance[]
Jabberjays were described as small, crested black birds, with nothing that visually betrays them as being mutts.[8] Their black feathers serve as nighttime camouflage.[2]

Trivia[]
Coriolanus Snow became rather fond of the birds when he looked after them in District 12. He was known to play with the birds' recording capabilities: he made them repeat back "silly phrases and sing bits of the anthem", and he tried to see how many he could control at once (which was up to four, when their cages were close together).[5]
In the Citadel, Avoxes were tortured with jabberjays that echoed their screams.[9]
References[]


↑ [1] Peeta's Mural of Rue Featured In HUNGER GAMES: CATCHING FIRE Concept Art

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 26

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 25

↑ 5.0 5.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 27

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 11

↑ 8.0 8.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 24

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 8






