

Jason


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	16 (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute



	
		Home
	
	District 6



	
		Weapon
	
	Sword (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male



	
		Height
	
	5'10" (film)[1]




	Appearances


	
		Portrayed by
	
	Ashton Moio





Jason was the male tribute from District 6 who participated in the 74th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Tribute Parade
1.1.2 Training
1.1.3 Interviews
1.1.4 Cornucopia bloodbath




2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the theme of the District 6 male's costume in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the Tribute Parade of the 74th Hunger Games, the District 6 male tribute was adorned in a costume symbolizing a moon. The ensemble featured a crescent moon-shaped headpiece encircling his face, potentially indicative of space shuttles, a likely nod to District 6's industry.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the District 6 male's name in the Hunger Games film?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games film, the male tribute from District 6 in the 74th Hunger Games was named Jason.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What combat skills did the District 6 male practice for the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In preparation for the 74th Hunger Games, the District 6 male honed his wrestling skills by practicing with the District 10 male. His training was observed while another tribute, the District 7 male, was being trained in spear throwing. His combat skills were later put to the test in a confrontation with the District 5 male during the games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was the District 6 male's partner in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, the District 6 male, also known as Jason in the film, was paired with the District 6 female as his partner.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
74th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 6 tributes in their parade costumes. 		 	 
Tribute Parade[]
In the Tribute Parade, he was dressed in a flowing costume that resembled a moon. Also, a crescent moon-shaped head piece that curved around his face was worn by both him and his district partner. It may have been based on space shuttles and space travel, because of the moon theme.[2]

Training[]
In the film, he was first seen practicing hand-to-hand combat with the District 10 male. Later, he got into a fight with Cato, who thought he took his knife, and Cato threatened to target him in the arena. However, it was actually Rue who stole the knife and was hiding in the net on the ceiling, much to Thresh and Katniss' amusement.[2]

Interviews[]
For the interviews, he wore a green suit with black shoes with laces. He was seen waiting in line with the other tributes.[2]

Cornucopia bloodbath[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Jason about to be killed by Cato. 		 	 
Jason was killed in the initial Cornucopia bloodbath.[3] He stood on the pedestal next to the District 7 female. When the gong rang, he ran straight towards the left as Marvel stabbed the District 8 male. After arriving at the Cornucopia, Cato targeted him, beat him up and left him to die, but he was able to get up. He then got into a physical altercation with Stele. Afterwards, he fought the District 10 male over a backpack, but was elbowed to the ground. While Glimmer killed his district partner near a crate, he looked for supplies. He then attacked the District 5 male, pinned him onto a crate and strangled him. The District 5 male gained an advantage and hurled his head into a crate. He grabbed a sword and attempted to kill Glimmer, but Cato tripped him, grabbed a serrated sword and slashed his stomach twice, then finished him off with a stab.[2]

Trivia[]
His name is unspecified in the books, and is revealed in the movies during the training scene.
Jason is the name of a Greek hero and leader of the Argonauts, who sought the Golden Fleece. This might relate to he and his district partner's costumes.
In the film, his odds of winning were 24–1, he was 16 years old, and he weighed 150 pounds.[1]
In the arena, he wears a tomato red jacket.
In the film, he was the 10th dead, but when the District 8 female was killed, the scoreboard behind Caesar states that he was the 4th dead.
In the film, his portrait, as well as his district partner, was not explicitly shown during the fallen.
In The Hunger Games: Training Days board game, he and his district partner, along with District 10 and District 9, were not given cards or any recognition.
Gallery[]
Cato accusing Jason of taking his knifeThe District 6 tributes waiting for their interviewsTribute Identification Card
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 File:Full stats board.png

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The Hunger Games film

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 11






