

Jessup Diggs


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	18[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (Died of rabies and injuries from a fall)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Nick Benson







"What I'd like people to know about Jessup is that he was a good person. He threw his body over mine to protect me when the bombs started going off in the arena. It wasn't even conscious. He did it reflexively. That's who he was at heart. A protector. I don't think he would've ever won the Games, because he'd have died trying to protect Lucy Gray."
—Lysistrata Vickers describing Jessup.[src]
Jessup Diggs was the male tribute from District 12 in the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Lysistrata Vickers. He became the ally of Lucy Gray Baird for the Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 10th Hunger Games
1.2 Death
1.3 Film adaptation


2 Physical description
3 Family
4 Etymology
5 Gallery
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Jessup Diggs play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Jessup Diggs represented District 12 as a male tribute. His mentor, Lysistrata Vickers, and ally, Lucy Gray Baird, played significant roles in his Games experience. His time in the Games was marked by a rabid raccoon bite on his neck, leading to aggressive behavior and a fear of water. His mentor used this fear to separate him from Lucy Gray Baird by sending water bottles into the arena. Jessup's life ended due to the rabies and a fatal fall.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Jessup Diggs' mentor in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Jessup Diggs from District 12 was mentored by Lysistrata Vickers, a top student from the Capitol's Academy. He also formed an alliance with Lucy Gray Baird.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Jessup Diggs and Lucy Gray Baird become allies in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Jessup Diggs allied with Lucy Gray Baird. They formed an alliance, a common survival strategy in the Hunger Games, where tributes assist each other by sharing resources and providing mutual protection. However, these alliances typically dissolve as the Games approach the end to mitigate the emotional toll of potential conflict between allies.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Jessup Diggs' occupation before the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Jessup Diggs, a character in the Hunger Games, worked in the District 12 mines prior to his participation in the 10th Hunger Games. He was mentored by Lysistrata Vickers and formed an alliance with Lucy Gray Baird during the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of the name Jessup in the context of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Jessup, a variant of the biblical name Joseph, symbolizes the act of being taken away or given, mirroring Jessup Diggs' fate in the Hunger Games reaping. His last name, Diggs, signifies his employment in District 12's coal mining industry. Jessup participated in the 10th Hunger Games, forming an alliance with Lucy Gray Baird. Prior to the Games, he was bitten by a rabid raccoon, leading to his contraction of rabies, which he subsequently transmitted to Reaper Ash.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Jessup at the reaping. 		 	 
Jessup grew up in District 12, already having been employed in the mines before the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games. When his name was called by Mayor Lipp, he awkwardly ascended the steps to take his place. He shook hands with his district partner, Lucy Gray Baird, and she pulled him into a bow.[2]
When the tributes were taken to the Capitol in a cattle car, Jessup helped Lucy Gray descend onto the platform, catching her and swinging her to the ground gracefully.[3] At the Capitol Zoo, Lucy Gray encouraged Jessup to approach Sejanus Plinth and take a sandwich and plum from him, leading to the other tributes accepting food as well.[4]
The first night in the zoo, Jessup was bitten in the neck by a furry animal in the dark, which was at first assumed to be a rat. From then on, him and Lucy Gray took turns sleeping. When Coriolanus Snow, Lucy Gray's mentor, arrived to visit her at the zoo, he made eye contact with Jessup, who was holding a handkerchief to his neck. Jessup then woke up Lucy Gray so she could talk with Coriolanus, and she later gave him two of the four crackers she had received from her mentor.[5]
During the tour of the Capitol Arena before the Games, Jessup's assigned mentor, Lysistrata Vickers, gave him cream for his neck, as she had been working to connect with Jessup.[6] When the rebel bombs exploded, Jessup protected Lysistrata by throwing his body over her, a fact that was later recounted to a reporter.[7]
At the interviews, Jessup and Lysistrata were one of the few remaining mentor-tribute pairs that had something to present. During their turn, Lysistrata sat in her chair while Jessup easily lifted her over his head, demonstrating his strength. Partly because of this, he was one of the tributes that Capitol citizens favored to win.[8]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lucy Gray and Jessup at the zoo. 		 	 
The night before the Games began, Jessup stopped eating and began acting funny because he had actually been bitten by a rabid raccoon. Reaper Ash, the male tribute from District 11, apologized to each of the other tributes for having to kill them in the arena, and Jessup spit in his eye,[9] passing on rabies to Reaper as well.[10]

10th Hunger Games[]
When the gong sounded, Jessup was one of the few tributes that sprinted towards the weapons, though he soon dispersed. He and Lucy Gray hid out in the tunnels for the first and most of the second days of the Games.[11] They moved from spot to spot, with Jessup getting sicker as time went on, and bedded down near the entrance during the first night.[10]

Death[]
During the afternoon of the second day of the Games, Lucy Gray and Jessup emerged from hiding with Lucy Gray fleeing from Jessup, as the rabies had ailed him.[12] Jessup chased Lucy Gray into the stands, though he had trouble keeping his balance. When a water bottle arrived, sent by Coriolanus, Jessup destroyed it, agitated. This led to Coriolanus and Lysistrata realizing he had hydrophobia as a result of his inability to swallow from rabies. To distract him from Lucy Gray, Lysistrata sent him many bottles of water to trigger this. He fell as he tried to run from the water bottles, and the sound of breaking bones could be heard as they were close to a speaker in the arena. Lucy Gray comforted him in his final moments, saying that he could sleep now. After Jessup died, Lucy Gray cleaned his face, and covered it from the audience with cloth.[13]
Jessup's body was later lined up among the other corpses by Reaper in his makeshift morgue.[14]

Film adaptation[]
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Jessup was infected with rabies on the train ride to the Capitol instead of at the Capitol Zoo. When the train arrived, bats were shown flying out of it, suggesting that it was a rabid bat instead of a rabid raccoon that got him. When the gong rang, Jessup remained on his pedestal for a while before inspecting his surroundings. Lucy Gray Baird grabbed him, telling him to leave quickly, and they escaped into the tunnels. They ran to a door, barely managing to squeeze inside before being killed by the two alliances outside.
The two tributes spent the night in that place, with Jessup in pain and unable to sleep. At dawn the next day, Jessup chased Lucy Gray to the stands. At that moment, Coriolanus Snow convinced Lysistrata Vickers to send him the water instead of Lysistrata doing it herself. The water hit Jessup, causing him to panic before falling and dying from the impact. Jessup placed 10th. Unlike in the book, he did not infect Reaper Ash with rabies.[15]

Physical description[]
Jessup had a fringe of black hair plastered down on his prominent forehead. He was bigger than average for a tribute from District 12, and strong-looking. He had already been employed in the mines before the 10th Hunger Games, contributing to his griminess, but attempted to wash before the reaping, leaving a relatively clean oval in the middle of his face. However, it was ringed with black, and his nails were caked with coal dust.[2] Jessup was also very strong, as he was able to easily lift Lysistrata Vickers over his head for the interviews.[8]
When Jessup was afflicted with rabies during the Games, he was stiff-limbed and feverish with excitement, with foam bubbling over his lips.[12] The rabies also loaned a maniac speed to his already powerful body, though his coordination was diminished, and he opened gashes on his body because of it.[13]

Family[]
In the film, Jessup briefly mentioned his Pa as he and the other tributes were led at gunpoint into the arena.[15]

Etymology[]
Jessup is a variant of the name Joseph, connected in the Bible to God taking away or giving— perhaps as Jessup is taken away in the reaping. His surname, Diggs, might refer literally to his district's coal mining industry.

Gallery[]
Jessup's face on the monitors.Concept art of Jessup's costume.
References[]


↑ As Jessup was already employed in the mines before the reaping and District 12 citizens must be at least 18 to enter the mines, Jessup must have met the requirements.

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 5

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 8

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 9

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ 8.0 8.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ 10.0 10.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ 12.0 12.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ 13.0 13.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 17

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ 15.0 15.1 The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






