

Johanna Mason

	
		
			
				
					
						
							Movies
							
						
					
				
					
						
							Illustrated Edition
							
						
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
						
						
					
				
			
		
			
				
					
						
						
					
				
			
		
	



	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	17 (71st Hunger Games)
21 (Catching Fire)[1][2]
21-22 (Mockingjay)



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor (71st Hunger Games)
Tribute (75th Hunger Games)
Sex worker (unwillingly)[3]



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 7
The Capitol & District 13 (briefly)



	
		Relatives
	
	Unnamed family



	
		Weapon
	
	Axes
Throwing Axes
Wrestling
Gun



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female





	
		Eye Color
	
	Brown (books)Green (films)



	
		Hair
	
	Brown (books and films)Brown with red dyed streaks (The Hunger Games: Catching Fire)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire
Mockingjay



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	The Hunger Games



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Catching Fire (film)
Mockingjay - Part 1
Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Jena Malone







"Well, yes, I'm angry. You know, I'm getting totally screwed over here. The deal was that if I win the Hunger Games, I get to live the rest of my life in peace. But now, you want to kill me again. Well, you know what? F---THAT! AND F--- EVERYBODY THAT HAD ANYTHING TO DO WITH IT! "
—Johanna Mason, angrily to the Capitol[src]
Johanna Mason of District 7 was the victor of the 71st Hunger Games.[4] Four years later, she became a tribute in the third Quarter Quell,[5] and she was a prisoner of war in the Second Rebellion.[6] She was the last living victor from District 7 by the end of the rebellion.[7] 

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Early life
1.2 71st Hunger Games
1.3 75th Hunger Games / Third Quarter Quell

1.3.1 Tribute Parade
1.3.2 Training
1.3.3 Interviews
1.3.4 The Games

1.3.4.1 Day 1
1.3.4.2 Day 2
1.3.4.3 Day 3




1.4 Second Rebellion

1.4.1 Imprisonment and Rescue

1.4.1.1 Military Training

1.4.1.1.1 The Block






1.5 Post-war


2 Alliances
3 Victims
4 Personality
5 Physical description

5.1 Films


6 Skills
7 Relationships

7.1 Family
7.2 Finnick Odair
7.3 Katniss Everdeen
7.4 Wiress and Beetee
7.5 Peeta Mellark


8 Etymology
9 Trivia
10 Gallery
11 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who portrays Johanna Mason in the Hunger Games films?
						
				
				
					
						American actress Jena Malone portrays the character Johanna Mason in the Hunger Games film series, including 'Catching Fire', 'Mockingjay - Part 1', and 'Mockingjay - Part 2'.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Johanna Mason become the victor of the 71st Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Johanna Mason, from District 7, won the 71st Hunger Games by pretending to be weak so that she would be overlooked in the arena. Once most of the other tributes were eliminated, Johanna revealed her deadly capacity to kill. She most likely used an axe, which was her weapon of choice in the 75th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Community
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Does Johanna Mason survive the events of the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						Johanna Mason, the District 7 tribute, is a survivor of the Hunger Games series. She claimed victory in the 71st Hunger Games and participated in the third Quarter Quell. Despite being a prisoner of war in the Second Rebellion, she remained the final surviving victor from her district post-rebellion.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What district is Johanna Mason originally from in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Johanna Mason hails from District 7, renowned for its lumber industry. Her upbringing in this district honed her axe-wielding skills.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What role does Johanna Mason play in the Mockingjay part of the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						Johanna Mason, a victor from District 7, is a key character in the Mockingjay segment of the Hunger Games series. After a brief stint in the Capitol, she is moved to District 13. Here, she receives military training and takes part in the Second Rebellion. Johanna survives the series.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Early life[]
Johanna Mason was born in District 7, a district known for producing lumber. She became very tough and physically durable as a result of the work she did, and developed great skill with wielding an axe.[8] Katniss notes that she'd probably been able to wield an axe since she could toddle.

71st Hunger Games[]
Johanna participated in the 71st Hunger Games[4] at the age of seventeen.[1] The District 7 stylist dressed Johanna and her district partner as trees, just like four decades' worth of tributes before them.[9]
Johanna pretended to be a "sniveling, cowardly fool"[10] so that she would be ignored, and when only a handful of tributes were left, she revealed a "wicked ability to murder".[9] After her victory, she was sex trafficked by President Snow, and if she put up any resistance at all, people she loved were "killed or tormented in some way".[3] Any loved ones she had died sometime before the Quell.[11]

75th Hunger Games / Third Quarter Quell[]

"My stylist is such an idiot. District 7, lumber. I'd like to put an axe in her face."
—Johanna Mason[src]
Four years after her victory, Johanna was reaped again during the Third Quarter Quell, alongside Blight. At the time, Johanna was 21 years old, the next youngest tribute in the Quarter Quell after 17-year-olds Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark.[1] 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Johanna and Blight in their chariot  		 	 
Tribute Parade[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Johanna stripping in front of Katniss, Peeta, and Haymitch. 		 	 
Johanna first met Katniss and Peeta after the opening ceremonies, in the elevator up to their apartments in the Training Center. Removing her leafy headdress, Johanna complained that tributes from 7 had been dressed as trees for forty years under the same stylist, and she wished that she had gotten Cinna instead. Then she unzipped her costume the rest of the way, leaving nothing else but her forest green slippers. Katniss was immediately turned off by this. Johanna discussed Peeta's paintings with him, and Katniss ignored Peeta after Johanna exited, though she could tell he was grinning. Peeta later explained to Katniss that Johanna did this to get a reaction, since she and the other tributes obviously saw Katniss as being the most "pure" of the Victors. [9]

In the book, Chaff and Seeder were also in the elevator,[9] but in the film, their place was taken by Haymitch Abernathy.[12] 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Johanna in the Training Center. 		 	 
Training[]
On the first morning of training, Johanna was seen naked again, oiling down her skin for a wrestling lesson. Sometime before lunch, she mentioned the nicknames Nuts and Volts to Peeta, in reference to Wiress and Beetee.[13] In the film, she intimidated Katniss with her coordination and precision in wielding an axe.[12] She later received a "low to medium" training score.[14]

Interviews[]
Before interviews began, when Katniss arrived backstage in her wedding dress, Johanna stopped to straighten Katniss's pearl necklace and told her to "Make him pay for it," meaning President Snow. During Johanna's interview with Caesar Flickerman, she asked if something could be done about the victors going back into the arena, since surely the Gamemakers never anticipated such attachment forming between the victors and the Capitol.[14] At the end of the program, Johanna held hands with the other victors in a show of rebellion, and afterward, she and Finnick Odair tried to get into an elevator with Katniss and Peeta, but they were blocked from doing so by a Peacekeeper.[15]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Johanna and her stylist 		 	 
In the film, Caesar asked Johanna if she was angry with the victors going back into the arena, and Johanna furiously replied that she was angry because winning the Hunger Games was supposed to exempt her for life, yet the Capitol wanted to try and kill her again. She cursed everyone who was involved, then stormed backstage. Later, her stylist knelt beside her to adjust her dress, and Johanna was met with Katniss in her wedding dress. Johanna then told Katniss to make Snow pay for it, as in the book, and returned to the stage to hold hands with the other victors.[12]

The Games[]
Day 1[]
Johanna survived the initial Cornucopia bloodbath, making it away with Blight, Beetee, and Wiress before heading into the jungle.[16] In the film, she tried to kill the District 10 female with one of her axes, but the woman was able to dodge it. [12]

Day 2[]
Around one in the morning on the second day, Johanna and her alliance were very thirsty and looking forward to a rainstorm when they were caught in the clock arena's blood rain sector. They stumbled around, blinded, until Blight ran into the force field near the end of the sector's time period. He was killed instantly.[16] Sometime after this, Wiress figured out the clock mechanism, and she sang nursery rhymes about clocks for hours before "she started tick-tocking", as Johanna put it.[8]
Between ten o'clock and noon, Johanna, Beetee, and Wiress caught up with Katniss, Peeta, and Finnick. Katniss came to Wiress's defense when Johanna pushed the older woman down on the beach, and Johanna, agitated, claimed to have brought Beetee and Wiress for Katniss. However, before she could say more, Finnick grabbed her and repeatedly dunked her into the salt lake. Once all the blood was cleaned off, Johanna ate and drank voraciously while Finnick caught her up on the events had befallen them. Eventually, Johanna and Katniss took watch while the others rested. Here, she asked Katniss about what had happened to Mags, then informed Katniss that Mags had been Finnick's mentor and "half his family." After this, she clarified that she'd gotten Beetee and Wiress for Katniss on Haymitch's direction, in order to secure their alliance. When Wiress reappeared, Johanna excused herself to go rest beside Finnick.[16]
Johanna and the others were woken a few hours later by Katniss, who explained about the clock, and the group decided to verify the theory and restock at the Cornucopia. There, Johanna obtained a pair of "lethal-looking" axes and several knives before they were ambushed by the Career Tributes. Gloss slit Wiress's throat, Katniss shot Gloss in the right temple with an arrow, and Johanna buried an axe blade in Cashmere's chest. Brutus and Enobaria sprinted down a strip of sand into the jungle, but when Johanna and her allies made to give chase, the Cornucopia spun around. This knocked all three bodies into the water, along with a living Beetee, and disoriented the group. It also erased any advantage they'd gained in figuring out which sectors of the clock corresponded to which hour. With Beetee and his coil of wire recovered, the group returned to the jungle, only for Finnick and Katniss to find themselves trapped in the jabberjay sector at four o'clock.[8]
Johanna and Peeta tried to cut through an invisible wall, but they were separated from their allies until the hour was up. Johanna made to go tap the trees for water with a spile, but Katniss tried to warn her against it because the jabberjays echoed the fabricated screams of tributes' loved ones. However, Johanna replied that she couldn't be hurt because she had no one left. She also collected arrows that Katniss had shot at the birds. After a cannon blast, she returned to the beach to see a tribute's body being extracted from another sector of jungle in pieces. Later that evening, the alliance received a sponsor gift of bread: twenty-four rolls from District 3,[11] corresponding with an agreed-upon rebel code. This meant that they needed to enact their mission at midnight on their third night inside the arena.[6] After joking darkly that they should each have three rolls, and whoever survives till morning can have the rest, Johanna laid down to sleep.[11]

Day 3[]
Another sponsor gift delivery of bread arrived in the morning on the ten o'clock beach. Johanna kept a "careful eye" on Katniss and Peeta's swimming lesson, but evidently lost interest and took a nap. Finnick later woke her so Beetee could explain his plan to kill the Careers— which was actually a cover story for the real rebel plan Johanna, Beetee, and Finnick were already in on. Around nine in the morning, the alliance left their camp to go inspect the lightning tree. While Beetee did so and Finnick guarded, Johanna tapped the trees for water. Shortly after eleven, Johanna recommended that they leave before the midday lightning storm. In the blood rain sector, they settled down to eat before taking a "circuitous route" back to their camp on the ten o'clock beach. Johanna kept watch as Finnick, Katniss, and Peeta prepared their seafood. More bread arrived to reaffirm the time of the mission.[17]
Around nine in the evening, Johanna and her allies left their camp for the twelve o'clock beach, then hiked up through the jungle to the lightning tree. Beetee had wrapped his wire around the tree by 10:30 when he explained the rest of the cover-story plan. He sent Johanna and Katniss into the jungle together to unspool the wire all the way down to the beach and sink it into the salt lake. The girls took turns unwinding it, and about halfway down, they heard clicking rise from the eleven o'clock sector, marking the time. Shortly after, when Johanna was passing the coil to Katniss, Enobaria and Brutus cut the wire somewhere above them. At this point, Johanna knocked Katniss over the head with the heavy metal cylinder,[18] then cut the tracker out of Katniss's arm so the Capitol would be unable to find her.[6] Johanna also smeared blood across Katniss's face to make Enobaria and Brutus believe she was already dying.[18] Johanna then led the Careers away.[6]
Using the twelve o'clock lightning strike, Katniss was able to blow out the arena's force field with an electrified arrow at midnight. As a result, rebels from District 13 were able to extract Katniss, Finnick, and Beetee, whereas Johanna, Peeta, and Enobaria were captured by the Capitol.[6]

Second Rebellion[]
Imprisonment and Rescue[]
Johanna, Peeta, and the kidnapped Annie Cresta were held captive by the Capitol for five or six weeks after the Quell.[19] Upon rescue, Johanna was emaciated, bruised, and covered in oozing scabs, and her head had been completely shaven.[20] During her imprisonment, she had been soaked in water and then tortured with electric shocks. She developed a fear of water as a result.[15]
Johanna received medical attention in District 13,[20] and she had been staying in the hospital for several weeks when they began to cut back on her supply of morphling. Katniss returned from District 2 a few days later, injured, and a curtain separated her bed from Johanna's bed. Then Johanna dipped into Katniss's supply, and when Katniss awoke, the two discussed their mutual dislike and Katniss's role as the Mockingjay. When Gale Hawthorne entered, Johanna teased him and left the room. She later attended Finnick and Annie's wedding, and she asked Katniss if she was "going to miss the chance to let Snow see [her] dancing".[21]
In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2, this was an excuse for Katniss to be seen in public as an alibi before she snuck onto a hovercraft to the Capitol.[22] That was likely inspired by a line Johanna said in the book: "But I'm going to the stinking Capitol if I have to kill a crew and fly there myself." The film entirely skipped the training arc that followed.[23]

Military Training[]
After being refused the opportunity to go fight in the Capitol, Johanna and Katniss trained together as soldiers for three weeks leading up to the battle. Initially, they were assigned to train alongside fourteen- or fifteen-year-olds, who were the youngest trainees in 13's army. The pair suffered together and bonded as Johanna fought both her hydrophobia and morphling withdrawals. Eventually, the girls moved into a compartment together in order to stop being seen as hospital patients.[23]
At the end of the week, they ate dinner with Gale, Finnick, Annie, and Delly Cartwright, later being joined by Peeta. Johanna patted the empty seat beside her, and she claimed she and Peeta were old friends. Having been held in adjacent cells in the Capitol, she said they were "very familiar with each other's screams." After more tense conversation, Katniss left with Gale. Johanna caught up with her in their compartment later to relay what she'd missed: Delly rebuked Peeta for the way he'd treated Katniss, and Johanna took advantage of the distraction to finish his stew. She also confirmed that what she'd said about the screaming was true.[23]

The Block[]
Johanna and Katniss were part of a handful of recruits moved to an additional training class: simulated street combat, or SSC, known colloquially as the Block. Johanna and Katniss did well on this track, and a few days before troops were set to deploy, York recommended them for the exam. Johanna and Katniss passed the obstacle course, written tactics exam, and a test of weapons proficiency, before taking on the Block. Johanna went in three people before Katniss. However, aware of her fear of water, they flooded the streets and she suffered a traumatic flashback, ending up in the hospital again. She was visited in the hospital by Finnick, and then Katniss gifted her a bundle of pine needles in a bandage, to remind her of home. Johanna took comfort in the familiar scent, and just before Katniss left, Johanna made her swear "on her family's life" to kill President Snow.[15]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The outfit Johanna wore to Snow's execution 		 	 
Post-war[]
On the day of President Snow's execution, President Coin gathered all seven remaining victors and asked them to vote on a 76th Hunger Games, using the children of Capitol officials as tributes. Peeta cast the first vote against this, then Johanna cast the first vote in favor, even pointing out that Snow had a granddaughter. A 4-3 majority approved the proposal. Then Johanna took her place for the execution alongside the other victors, and she watched as Katniss assassinated Coin instead.[7]
Johanna Mason's life after this is unknown. However, since she expressed homesickness while in District 13,[15] she may have returned to District 7. The Games she voted for never came to pass, and the Games were abolished.[24]

Alliances[]
Johanna initially allied with Blight, Wiress, and Beetee in the 75th Hunger Games, and after Blight's death, she and the District 3 tributes joined up with Katniss, Peeta, and Finnick.[16] However, Johanna, Beetee, and Finnick were also a part of a larger rebel alliance aimed at protecting Katniss and breaking out of the arena. This included tributes from 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 11.[6]

Victims[]
Johanna killed an unknown number of tributes in the later stage of the 71st Hunger Games, when only a handful of people remained.[10] In the Quell, she killed Cashmere on Day 2 by lodging the blade of an axe into her chest.[8] She was not known to have killed anyone during the war.

Personality[]

"I don't care if you're knocked up. I'll rip your throat out."
—Johanna Mason to Katniss Everdeen[src]Due to her strategy in the 71st Hunger Games, Johanna was described as being "pretty clever".[10] She could be pert and difficult at times, but she was also capable of being persuasive, as seen in her interview with Caesar in the second book.[14] She was bold and outspoken, unafraid to express her opinion, especially as it pertained to the Capitol and President Snow. She was known to be impatient, cruel, or even vicious, but this was a defense mechanism to cover up how vulnerable and traumatized she was underneath all the bluster.[25]
Physical description[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Johanna as she appears in Catching Fire 		 	 
Johanna had spiky brown hair and wide-set brown eyes.[9] In Mockingjay, she returned from her torture in the Capitol with a shaved head.[20] Within a few weeks of rescue, some of the scars on her head were covered by a "soft down",[21] and eventually it grew back enough for the damp edges of her hair to form "little spikes". A slightly built young woman, Katniss believed her ferocity came from her abrasive attitude.[25]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Johanna's portrait in her interview dress 		 	 
Films[]
In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, Johanna had shoulder-length hair with bangs, and several streaks were dyed cherry red.[12]
The gown Johanna wore for her interview was a collaboration between costumer designer Trish Summerville and couture designer Jan Taminiau.[26] Taminiau's solo version of the gown first appeared as part of his Nature Extends Couture collection in July 2011.[27]
In "One Panem" promotional materials for The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, she was shown wearing a headwrap, shoes by Alexander Wang, and a white gown from Alon Livné's Spring 2014 collection.[28]

Skills[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Johanna with her axe dug into the floor. 		 	 
Since she was raised in the lumber district, Johanna was adept with axes, and she was able to throw them with enough force to wedge one into the metal Cornucopia. She also had enough skill in combat overall to be able to quickly dispatch Cashmere, a seasoned Career.[8]
During training on the Block, Johanna and Katniss were the only ones able to put on their gas masks in time, so she had quick reflexes. Katniss also said that Johanna was "wicked throwing an ax but about average with a gun,"[15] though it should be noted that Katniss was herself a skilled sharpshooter, and many would look average by comparison.

Relationships[]
Family[]

"They can't hurt me. I'm not like the rest of you. There's no one left I love."
—Johanna to the victors[src]
Haymitch Abernathy mentioned Johanna's name when he spoke about his family's deaths; he was held up as an example to younger victors, intimidating them into compliance with the Capitol so their own families wouldn't come to harm.[20] Since Johanna said she had no loved ones left during the third Quarter Quell,[11] and she was a victim of Snow's trafficking of victors,[3] her loved ones may have been killed in retaliation for any attempt at resistance.

Finnick Odair[]

"Love is weird..."
—Johanna on Finnick and Annie.
Johanna and Finnick were friends prior to the 75th Hunger Games. They were both victims of Snow's sex trafficking,[3] and they were allies during the 75th Hunger Games, along with Wiress, Beetee, Katniss, and Peeta.[16] Katniss believed that Johanna was only in the alliance for Finnick, but in reality, Johanna was protecting the Mockingjay for the sake of the rebellion.[6]
In Mockingjay, Katniss stated that she didn't know what was between Finnick and Johanna, but Haymitch said Katniss and Finnick were "as close to friends as she's got."[15]

Katniss Everdeen[]

"You're a little hard to swallow. With your tacky romantic drama and your defender-of-the-helpless act. Only it isn't an act, which makes you more unbearable. Please feel free to take this personally."
—Johanna to Katniss[src]When they first met during the 75th Hunger Games, both Johanna and Katniss had a strong dislike for each other; despite their alliance, there was very little in the way of trust between them.[16] Once the escape plan was in motion, Katniss believed Johanna had tried to kill her by cutting open her arm,[18] and it wasn't until she heard otherwise from Plutarch Heavensbee that her opinion of Johanna began to change.[6]
After her rescue from Capitol, Johanna started to form an uneasy trust with Katniss. This was initially built on Johanna's usual brand of dark humor and blunt honesty, as well as the exchange of Katniss's morphling.[21] However, their weeks of training and cohabitating turned their alliance into a real friendship.[15]

Wiress and Beetee[]
At the Training Center, Peeta told Katniss that Johanna called them Nuts (Wiress) and Volts (Beetee). Peeta thought the nickname had been around for years though, so it may not have been Johanna's invention.[13] After the blood rain in the arena, Johanna roughly handled the District 3 tributes in order to get them to Katniss. Johanna was intolerant of the two, Wiress especially for her constant repetitive behaviors. She even became so aggravated that she pushed Wiress to the ground.[16] Johanna's relationship with Beetee was decidedly more neutral, though he did inspire some impatience in her.[17]

Peeta Mellark[]
Peeta and Johanna were tortured in the Capitol together along with Annie Cresta. Johanna revealed that they were "familiar with each other's screams", as they had adjoining cells. She also called him an "evil-mutt version" of himself after his hijacking, suggesting a low opinion of him and his behavior.[23]

Etymology[]
Johanna is a version of the name Joanna, meaning "God is gracious". Another notable variation of the name is Joan, as in the French military leader and saint Joan of Arc. Johanna's surname Mason comes from the profession of masonry, or building with stone— possibly chosen because Johanna helps to lay the groundwork for the rebellion during the third Quarter Quell.

Trivia[]
Johanna is the first victor from another district besides 12 to be mentioned in the trilogy.[10]
Like Katniss, Johanna is the only living female victor from her district as of the third Quarter Quell.[5]
Despite being advertised as part of the supporting cast, appearing in promotional "One Panem" videos alongside Peeta, and being mentioned at various times in Mockingjay - Part 1, Johanna only makes a brief cameo near the end.[29]
In Mockingjay - Part 2, many of Johanna's book scenes were entirely cut and reduced. She appears only after Katniss is hospitalized after being shot in District 2, at Finnick's and Annie's wedding, at the vote for one "final" Hunger Games, and at Snow's execution.[22]
In an early version of the Hunger Games script, Effie Trinket mentioned that Johanna cried throughout the entire training week. However, on day one, she hatcheted six tributes within two minutes.[30]
The German translation of The Hunger Games says that Johanna won seven years before the 74th Hunger Games. This would mean that at least in the German version of the text, she won the 67th Hunger Games rather than the 71st.
In order for her to still be 21 during Catching Fire per Suzanne Collins' Time interview,[1] she would have had to win the 67th Hunger Games at only 13 years old.
Gallery[]
Main article: Gallery:Johanna Mason 
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 “I Was Destined to Write a Gladiator Game”: A Conversation with Suzanne Collins and Francis Lawrence - TIME

↑ The Hunger Games: The Exhibition - see image

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 Katniss is “A Wreck”: A Conversation with Suzanne Collins and Francis Lawrence - TIME

↑ 4.0 4.1 Game Faces: District 7’s Johanna Mason - Capitol Couture

↑ 5.0 5.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 6.6 6.7 Catching Fire, Chapter 27

↑ 7.0 7.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 26

↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 23

↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 9.3 9.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ 10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 The Hunger Games, Chapter 3

↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 11.3 Catching Fire, Chapter 24

↑ 12.0 12.1 12.2 12.3 12.4 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ 13.0 13.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ 14.0 14.1 14.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 17

↑ 15.0 15.1 15.2 15.3 15.4 15.5 15.6 Mockingjay, Chapter 18

↑ 16.0 16.1 16.2 16.3 16.4 16.5 16.6 Catching Fire, Chapter 22

↑ 17.0 17.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 25

↑ 18.0 18.1 18.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 26

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 11

↑ 20.0 20.1 20.2 20.3 Mockingjay, Chapter 12

↑ 21.0 21.1 21.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 16

↑ 22.0 22.1 The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2

↑ 23.0 23.1 23.2 23.3 Mockingjay, Chapter 17

↑ Mockingjay, Epilogue

↑ 25.0 25.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 18

↑ Johanna Mason: Branching Out - Capitol Couture

↑ http://spiceprblog.blogspot.com/2011/07/jantaminiau-nature-extends-honor-to.html

↑ Johanna Mason: Statuesque Allure - Capitol Couture

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1

↑ https://www.screenwritersnetwork.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/The-Hunger-Games-1-Script.pdf





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2






