

Jubilee

	Biographical Information


	
		Home
	
	The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes







"Oh, say it! Come on! 'Hi, Handsome! Hi, Handsome!'"
—Lucretius Flickerman trying to coax Jubilee to speak[src]
Jubilee was a parrot belonging to Lucretius Flickerman, a weatherman and aspiring magician with Capitol TV. He brought the parrot to his broadcasts of the 10th Hunger Games, hoping to liven up the proceedings. Jubilee was a depressed bird who was battling mange. 

Contents

1 Biography
2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 References



Biography[]
In the studio of the 10th Hunger Games, Lucretius Flickerman brought Jubilee to the set and tried to get him to say "Hi, Handsome!" to Dean Casca Highbottom of the Academy. The bird refused to speak at all at first, leading to Flickerman claiming that he was shy in front of strangers, but he did eventually say "Hi, Handsome!" in a depressed voice.[1]
After that, the bird refused to speak again, so Lucky used a high-pitched voice to pretend Jubilee was speaking instead of himself in a conversation. During an attempted weather report, with added commentary from the bird, Flickerman used to high-pitched voice to say that District 12 had "...snow, Lucky. Coriolanus Snow!" When the camera cut to Coriolanus for his reaction, he gave them a thumbs-up, but in reality was tired of Flickerman's antics.[1]
When eight mentors remained in the 10th Hunger Games, Jubilee was brought out again, this time confined in a cage "more suited to a rabbit than a bird". In late afternoon, Lucky resumed his coverage, and Dr. Volumnia Gaul sat across from him, holding Jubilee in his cage. Jubilee rocked back and forth, trying to comfort himself, and was eyed worriedly by Flickerman.[2]

Etymology[]
Jubilee is a word for a time of celebration, ironically contrasted by the bird's depressed demeanor.

Trivia[]
Jubilee is the only named pet bird in the series, but not the only pet bird overall; Mrs. Everdeen had a canary in her youth that used to belong to Maysilee Donner.[3]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 12






