

Juno Phipps


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	17-18



	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Serena Oexle







"Snooty Juno Phipps admitted she'd been disappointed to get tiny Bobbin. Didn't a Phipps, a member of a founding family of the Capitol, deserve better than District 8?"
—Juno's behavior in the interviews[src]
Juno Phipps was a female resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. She was assigned the male tribute from District 8, Bobbin.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Personality and traits
3 Etymology
4 References



Biography[]
During the interviews before the 10th Hunger Games began, Juno admitted that she'd been disappointed when she was assigned Bobbin, a small District 8 boy. However, she stated that he had won her over after describing multiple ways he could kill somebody with a sewing needle.[2]
Unbeknownst to her, Bobbin was killed by her fellow mentor, Coriolanus Snow, late in Day 1 of the Games in self-defense after Phipps had left for the night.[3] Bobbin finished in 13th place of the 24 tributes, which would have been considered successful as a mentor had 9 tributes not died in the days leading up to the start of the actual Games. This meant that Phipps only successfully mentored her tribute past two others, one of which had been tortured and strung up in the arena prior.
Since Phipps' tribute was not actually seen to be killed, she was shocked the next morning when Lucretius Flickerman announced his death with a closeup of his body. No cause of death was given and his memoriam glossed over in lieu of the celebration of the Games being halfway through. Phipps was visibly angry and suspected foul play, remarking that the scene looked fishy. She then demanded to review the tape, but there was not one to be seen, as the events of his death happened at night with the only lighting being the moon and the cameras had been manipulated even darker to obscure Sejanus Plinth's rebellious actions in the arena.[4] After being questioned what exactly counted as foul play during the Hunger Games, she was directed back to her seat with a consoling pat on the back.[3]

Personality and traits[]
Juno Phipps was snooty in nature and expressed disappointment, both in getting a tiny boy as a tribute and in getting someone from District 8. She felt that being from the Phipps family, a founding member of the Capitol, she was entitled to a better assignment.[2] After Bobbin's death, when demanding answers on the circumstances, she acted pompously by repetitively waving a leather binder with a Phipps family seal, thinking she was entitled to special treatment. This shows that she felt superior, even among other students with elite family names. She was labeled a sore loser after her poor behavior in exiting the competition.[3]

Etymology[]
Juno was the Roman goddess of marriage and childbirth, as well as the wife of Jupiter, the chief god of the Roman pantheon. Her surname, Phipps, comes from the given name Philip, meaning "horse-loving".

References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 15




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






