

Katniss and Peeta Mellark's daughter


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	At least 5-6 (epilogue)Infant (film)



	
		Occupation
	
	Student



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Katniss Everdeen (mother)Peeta Mellark (father)Unnamed little/older brotherAsterid Everdeen (maternal grandmother)Burdock Everdeen (maternal grandfather)Primrose Everdeen † (maternal aunt)Otho Mellark † (paternal grandfather)Mrs. Mellark † (paternal grandmother)Unnamed paternal uncle †Unnamed paternal uncle †Covey family (distant family)



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female





	
		Eye Color
	
	Blue (book)[1]



	
		Hair
	
	Black (book)[1]


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Theodore Lawrence





Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark's daughter has a younger brother and was born a little more than fifteen years after the Second Rebellion.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					When was Katniss and Peeta Mellark's daughter born in relation to the Second Rebellion?
						
				
				
					
						The daughter of Katniss and Peeta Mellark arrived over fifteen years following the Second Rebellion. This occurred post the events depicted in the last book of the Hunger Games series, Mockingjay. Peeta, who desired to have children, and Katniss, who once falsely claimed pregnancy for her protection in the 75th Hunger Games, eventually began their family.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Peeta's lie during the 75th Hunger Games interviews about Katniss?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games interviews, Peeta Mellark falsely claimed a secret marriage to Katniss Everdeen and announced her fabricated pregnancy. These untruths were strategically designed to secure audience sympathy and uphold their belief in the couple.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did Katniss claim she miscarried?
						
				
				
					
						Peeta lied about Katniss's pregnancy during the 75th Hunger Games interviews to safeguard her. Katniss then claimed a miscarriage caused by an electric shock to evade further inquiries. About fifteen years post the Second Rebellion, Katniss consented to have children and became legitimately pregnant.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did Katniss and Peeta have more than one child?
						
				
				
					
						Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark, characters from the Mockingjay, have two children. Their first child is a girl and the second is a boy. The decision to have children was influenced by Peeta, despite Katniss's initial reluctance due to her fears related to the Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Peeta feel about having children after the Second Rebellion?
						
				
				
					
						Peeta Mellark had a strong desire for children following the Second Rebellion. Despite Katniss's initial reluctance due to her fear of the Hunger Games, she eventually agreed. About fifteen years after the rebellion, they had a daughter and a son.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
During the interviews for the 75th Hunger Games, Peeta lied about Katniss being pregnant to try to protect her from the Games,[2] and Katniss later stated that she miscarried due to an electric shock with the force field to avoid further questioning.[3] However, Peeta desperately wanted children, and approximately fifteen years after the end of the Second Rebellion, Katniss eventually agreed and she got pregnant legitimately.[1]
Katniss described terrible fear at the feeling of her daughter moving inside her during her pregnancy. The only cure for this fear was finally holding her baby in her arms. Katniss truly loved her children, appreciating their ignorance towards the Games. However, she was remorseful, knowing that someday she would need to tell her children about their parents' role in the Games and the rebellion.[1]
Katniss and Peeta's daughter liked to dance in the Meadow.[1]

Physical description[]
She had long dark hair like her mother and blue eyes like her father.[1]

Trivia[]
In the films, the ages of Katniss and Peeta's son and daughter were switched, contradicting what was stated in the novel.[4]
She is portrayed by Jennifer Lawrence's nephew, Theodore Lawrence.[5]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 Mockingjay, Epilogue

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 7

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2

↑ Tinubu, Abeni (October 5, 2020). ‘The Hunger Games’: Jennifer Lawrence on How ‘Special’ It Was for Her Nephews To Join the Cast. Deadline. Retrieved on July 15, 2022.






