

Katniss and Peeta Mellark's son


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Toddler



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Katniss Everdeen (mother)Peeta Mellark (father)Unnamed older/little sisterAsterid Everdeen (maternal grandmother)Burdock Everdeen † (maternal grandfather)Primrose Everdeen † (maternal aunt)Otho Mellark † (paternal grandfather)Mrs. Mellark † (paternal grandmother)Unnamed paternal uncle †Unnamed paternal uncle †Covey family (distant family)



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male





	
		Eye Color
	
	Gray (book)[1]



	
		Hair
	
	Blond (book[1] and film)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Bear Lawrence





Katniss and Peeta Mellark's son is the second child of Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark. He has an elder sister, and was born a little more than fifteen years after the Second Rebellion.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What is the birth order of Katniss and Peeta Mellark's children in the film versus the book?
						
				
				
					
						Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark, characters from The Hunger Games, have two kids. The birth order, in both the book and film, is the daughter first, followed by the son. The daughter inherits Katniss's black hair and Peeta's blue eyes, while the son has Peeta's blond hair and Katniss's grey eyes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Katniss Everdeen's pregnancy with her son compare to her pregnancy with her daughter?
						
				
				
					
						The pregnancy of Katniss Everdeen with her son was less stressful than her first pregnancy with her daughter. She experienced intense fear during her daughter's pregnancy, which was only eased upon holding her newborn. Her son, who is younger than his sister by a few years, was born after a comparatively smoother pregnancy. Both children are deeply loved by Katniss.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How many years after the Second Rebellion was Katniss and Peeta's son born?
						
				
				
					
						The son of Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark arrived over fifteen years following the Second Rebellion. He is the younger sibling in the family, having an older sister.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Does Katniss Everdeen have a baby boy or girl first in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark become parents to two children. Their firstborn is a girl, followed by a boy. Despite Katniss's initial fears of having children due to the potential of them being reaped, Peeta Mellark, her fellow tribute in the 74th and 75th Hunger Games, persuaded her.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the age difference between Katniss and Peeta Mellark's son and his sister?
						
				
				
					
						Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark's son is a toddler, significantly younger than his sister who is old enough to grasp their parents' involvement in the Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Katniss' pregnancy with her son was easier than her pregnancy with her daughter. He is a toddler during the epilogue and is at least a few years younger than his sister.[1] However, in the film, their birth order is reversed, making him a few years older than his infant sister.[2]
Katniss truly loves her children, appreciating their ignorance towards the Games. However, she is remorseful, knowing that someday she will need to tell her children about their parents' role in the Games and the rebellion.[1]

Physical description[]
Katniss and Peeta's son has his father's blond hair and his mother's gray Seam eyes, as well as chubby legs.[1]

Trivia[]
In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2, he was portrayed by Jennifer Lawrence's nephew, Bear Lawrence.[3][4]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Mockingjay, Epilogue

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2

↑ Tinubu, Abeni (October 5, 2020). ‘The Hunger Games’: Jennifer Lawrence on How ‘Special’ It Was for Her Nephews To Join the Cast. Deadline. Retrieved on July 15, 2022.

↑ The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon: "Jennifer Lawrence Isn't a Real X-Men Mutant to Her Nephew"






