

Kerna

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (50th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 9



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female





	
		Eye Color
	
	Blue



	
		Hair
	
	Brown


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping (upcoming)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Alina Reid[1]







"A small, pained cry escapes the girl’s lips as she crouches over the bits. The sunflower mattered, I think, even more than being her last handful of home. I bet someone close to her made it. Her ma or pa? Her sister or brother? Someone she loves."
—Haymitch describing Kerna's reaction to Panache Barker breaking her token.[src]
Kerna was one of two female tributes from District 9 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games.[2]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 50th Hunger Games


2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References



Biography[]
50th Hunger Games[]
Before the start of the Games, Beetee Latier noticed the sunflower necklace tokens that everyone from Kerna's district had. He instructed Haymitch to get them to join the Newcomers as they could use these tokens for their plan to sabotage the arena. Haymitch Abernathy thought their efficiency and capabilities would make them good allies.[3] 
While training in the shelter booth, Panache Barker went up to one of the boys and offered them a chance to join the Careers pack but he refused. Panache was upset that they turned him down and retaliated by targeting Kerna. She was focusing on building pine needles and when she did not respond to his taunt, he grabbed her token and broke it. She was devastated and Haymitch thought it meant more to her than just a piece of home. Maysilee Donner fixed it and Kerna, along with the rest of 9, decided to join the Newcomers alliance.[3] Even so, they weren't very sociable and almost appeared exclusive.[4]
Kerna was the last person Haymitch saw before he dashed off into the woods to avoid the bloodbath. After running for a weapon,[5] Kerna died in the initial bloodbath along with everyone else in her district.[6] As Haymitch finished running, he heard a young girl's shriek.[5] This may have been Kerna's, as he had just seen her, and Kerna was the smallest girl in her district. Ampert retrieved two of District 9's tokens.[7]

Physical description[]
The District 9 tributes' training outfits were buttery yellow, which reminded Haymitch Abernathy of baby chicks.[8] Like the rest of her district, Kerna was still healing from sunburn, and had calloused hands and lean, muscled arms. She was the smallest tribute from her district.[3]

Personality and traits[]
Kerna, like the rest of her fellow tributes from District 9, weren't very sociable and liked to keep to themselves. However, Kerna was seemingly the most open of them, crying when her token was broken, as well as speaking with Haymitch and Maysilee.[4]

Etymology[]
"Kerna" is a feminisation of kernel, the seed of a cereal plant.

Trivia[]
Kerna is the first character from District 9 to have multiple lines of dialogue in the series (other than Clayton or Ryan telling Panache Barker "no").
Due to being described as a small girl, Kerna is probably twelve to thirteen years old.
References[]


↑ Post by the official Hunger Games account (July 15, 2025).

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 11

↑ 4.0 4.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 13

↑ 5.0 5.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 15

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 16

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 18

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 7




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White





