

Lenore Dove Baird


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	16[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Rebel



	
		Home
	
	The Seam in District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Unnamed motherUnknown fatherClerk Carmine Clade (adoptive uncle)Tam Amber (adoptive uncle)Burdock Everdeen † (distant cousin)Katniss Everdeen (distant cousin)Primrose Everdeen † (distant cousin)Unknown relationsLucy Gray BairdBarb Azure BairdMaude Ivory Baird †



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female





	
		Eye Color
	
	Dappled green[2] (book)Dark brown (film)



	
		Hair
	
	Auburn (film)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Whitney Peak





Lenore Dove Baird was a Covey girl from District 12 who was dating Haymitch Abernathy.[3]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Early life
1.2 50th Hunger Games
1.3 Death
1.4 Legacy


2 Personality and traits
3 Physical description
4 Relationships

4.1 Haymitch Abernathy


5 Etymology
6 Trivia
7 Gallery
8 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was Haymitch Abernathy's girlfriend from District 12?
						
				
				
					
						A woman from District 12 was Haymitch Abernathy's girlfriend. Their relationship occurred during the 50th Hunger Games when Haymitch was sixteen. Following Haymitch's victory in the Hunger Games, his girlfriend was killed, along with his mother and younger brother. This loss had a profound impact on Haymitch, who did not marry or engage in another romantic relationship.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the significance of Haymitch Abernathy's relationship with his girlfriend?
						
				
				
					
						The relationship between Haymitch Abernathy and his girlfriend was significant due to its tragic end. She was killed as a form of retribution by the Capitol after Haymitch's victory in the 50th Hunger Games, which had made the Capitol appear foolish. This event marked a turning point in Haymitch's life, leading him to a solitary existence and alcoholism.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did Haymitch Abernathy's girlfriend have any impact on his performance in the 50th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Haymitch Abernathy was in a relationship with his girlfriend during the 50th Hunger Games. Despite this, there's no explicit indication that she influenced his performance in the games. Tragically, following Haymitch's victory, the Capitol executed his girlfriend, mother, and younger brother as retribution for his actions during the games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Haymitch Abernathy's girlfriend react to his victory in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Haymitch Abernathy's girlfriend was unable to react to his victory in the 50th Hunger Games. She was killed by the Capitol two weeks after Haymitch's win, in retaliation for his game-winning strategy that embarrassed the Capitol.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Early life[]
Lenore Dove was born in December.[4] Her mother died in childbirth, so she was raised by her adoptive uncles, Clerk Carmine Clade and Tam Amber, in the Covey's house. She did not know who her father was, but the Chances were particularly fond of her, which suggested they had a connection. Clerk Carmine did not like her hanging around with them due to their reckless nature.[5]
Lenore Dove met Haymitch Abernathy in the fall when they were ten years old. It was the first time Haymitch had ever snuck out of the fence and into the woods with Burdock Everdeen, who was a distant relative of Lenore Dove. She was reading in an apple tree above them when she complained about Burdock's singing to the mockingjays. Lenore Dove dropped apples down onto the boys, and she and Haymitch discussed the origins of her name. At age twelve, she was arrested twice for rebellious acts.[2]
Since she was a Baird,[2] she likely had knowledge of Lucy Gray, but did not want to discuss her whenever Haymitch wondered who the first District 12 victor was.[4] This was possibly because the story was too secret or too painful. Lenore Dove would add scraps of Lucy Gray's dress to her wardrobe as a way to honor her memory.[6]

50th Hunger Games[]
Lenore Dove was dating Haymitch by the time of the 50th Hunger Games.[7] She taught his younger brother, Sid Abernathy about the stars, which she had learned herself from Tam Amber.[8] Haymitch went to see her shortly before the reaping on his birthday.[9] She gifted him a striker with a snake and a long-necked bird merged together with two small rings that she had designed.[2] During the reaping, she and Haymitch were presumed safe after the four tributes were picked. However, when the last tribute, Woodbine Chance ran away and was killed, a riot broke out. Lenore Dove tried to help his mother prevent Peacekeepers from taking his body away. Haymitch tried to protect her and was thus reaped after being chosen by Drusilla Sickle to take Woodbine's place in the Hunger Games.[5]
Drusilla demanded that the area was cleaned up before the reaping returned to broadcasting, and ordered a Peacekeeper to kill Lenore Dove for her resistance. Plutarch Heavensbee intervened as he wanted to record her tears over Haymitch's reaping as it would put on a good show for the audience. However when they reenacted the reaping, Lenore Dove refused to cry for the Capitol's entertainment. At the conclusion of the reaping, a Peacekeeper was about to put her in handcuffs when her uncles bribed him to let her go. Although she wanted to go over to Haymitch, they led her away down a sideroad.[5]
Shortly before the train left District 12 for The Capitol with Haymitch, she went to the hill nearby holding gumdrops that he had sent his brother Sid to give her. She wailed at the wind and let out her pain as the train left. Haymitch watched out the window and was glad she saved their goodbye for when they weren't being recorded.[5]
When training scores were released and Haymitch only received a 1, Lenore Dove performed forbidden songs on the reaping stage, which still stood outside the Justice Building. Her performance drew a crowd of other discontented kids, so she was arrested and held on the Peacekeepers' base in District 12. After the tributes' interviews, Plutarch arranged a phone call between her and Haymitch. She told him about her arrest and claimed she would be released the next morning;[1] however, she was still incarcerated when Haymitch returned home two weeks later. Her uncles arranged for her to be released on house arrest, and she went to graze her geese in the Meadow, where she reunited with Haymitch.

Death[]
Upon reuniting with Haymitch after his victory, his mother, younger brother Sid, and Lenore Dove, were killed as punishment for his rebellious actions during the Games.[3] In Lenore Dove's case, she was given a bag of red gumdrops, shortly after her release, believing it to be a bag he had left for Sid to give her earlier. However, Haymitch realized too late that the new bag had been planted there by Snow, filled with poison. Despite Haymitch and Lenore Dove's best efforts to stop it and call for help, the poison killed her. With her last words, Lenore Dove urged Haymitch not to let the sun rise on the reaping.[10] Lenore Dove was buried in the Covey's secret graveyard beside Lucy Gray and Maude Ivory Baird.[11]

Legacy[]
As a result of her death, Haymitch drove away anyone who could've been considered close to him so that they wouldn't suffer the same horrible fate and became an alcoholic. Haymitch would've welcomed his death if it wasn't for his promise to Lenore Dove that he would somehow keep the sun from rising on the reaping. Haymitch spent weeks looking for Lenore Dove's grave, eventually finding it with the help of Burdock Everdeen and spent two days at her graveside. The story that people were told was that she died suddenly of appendicitis.[11]
Haymitch told Katniss Everdeen twenty-five years later about his girlfriend and his family being killed.[3]
Following the Second Rebellion, Haymitch no longer found himself haunted by Lenore Dove. Instead, he saw her as having grown old beside him and he felt like she forgave him as Haymitch had at last kept his promise, or at least leant a hand. However, Lenore Dove would tell Haymitch that he couldn't join her yet as he still had to look after the tributes he had come to love as his new family. Haymitch later told Katniss and Peeta Mellark his story, about everyone he had ever lost, including Lenore Dove. Haymitch was content in knowing that the Capitol could never take Lenore Dove from him again, and they never really did in the first place.[12]

Personality and traits[]
 	  	 	 			   	 	 		 			 		 		 			SNEAK PEEK- Suzanne Collins Reads from Sunrise on the Reaping - Coming March 18th 		 		 	 
Lenore Dove was good with animals and raised a gaggle of geese from their hatching. She believed that anything was possible and that you shouldn't necessarily assume that something would continue to happen just because it had in the past. She was quiet in public, and thus surprised Haymitch with how much she could talk in private. She didn't like singing in public. Even though she was patient when explaining things, Haymitch felt that she might be too smart for him.[9]
Haymitch described Lenore Dove as having "a dark view on things."[2]

Physical description[]
Lenore Dove had dappled green eyes and her hair had a hint of red in the sunlight. She wore faded overalls and shirts that concealed snips of color salvaged from Lucy Gray Baird's dress, and held a blue handkerchief in her pocket and a raspberry ribbon in her cuff. While performing in Mayor Allister's house, she wore a faded green dress with an ivory hair ribbon and orange lipstick. Her voice was "as soft and haunting as moonlight."[2]

Relationships[]
Haymitch Abernathy[]

"I think of Haymitch, unmarried, no family, blotting out the world with drink. He could have had his choice of any woman in the district. And he chose solitude. Not solitude— that sounds too peaceful. More like solitary confinement."
—Katniss Everdeen[src]
Lenore Dove and Haymitch first met each other when they were ten years old and introduced through Lenore Dove's cousin, Burdock Everdeen. They developed a friendship and fell in love with each other as they grew up together. Haymitch was very protective of Lenore Dove, warning about her safety due to her history of getting into trouble with the local Peacekeepers. When Haymitch was reaped to replace Woodbine Chance as a tribute, Lenore Dove was devastated and shared an emotional phone call with him on the night before the 50th Hunger Games. When Snow orchestrated Lenore Dove's death, following his win in the Games, Haymitch was profoundly affected by her loss, causing him to relapse into alcoholism to cope with his grief over her death, along with his family's. Though Haymitch was deeply affected by Lenore Dove's death, he committed himself to somehow fulfill her dying wish to somehow end the Hunger Games. He is not known to have ever married, or even been romantic with another woman after her.[13]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Gifting Haymitch the Flint striker. 		 	 
Following the victory of the Second Rebellion, Haymitch finally moved on from Lenore Dove's death, having fulfilled his promise to help contribute in ending the Hunger Games, believing Lenore Dove was proud of him for his efforts. After recounting how he won his Games and lost he everyone he loved, including Lenore Dove, to Katniss and Peeta, Haymitch found peace and started raising geese in honor of Lenore Dove, believing his girlfriend's spirit had grown old with him and never left his side since her death.[14]

Etymology[]
In line with the Covey tradition of naming their children after a ballad and a color, Lenore Dove was named after the tormented man's beloved in Edgar Allan Poe's "The Raven", and the color of a dove, which the District 12 school's dictionary described as "[w]arm gray with a slight purplish or pinkish tint."[2] 

Trivia[]
In an exclusive excerpt from Chapter 1 of Sunrise on the Reaping from People Magazine, her name was revealed as Lenore Dove.[15]
This prompted fan speculation that she is Covey, since her name fits their unique naming convention: a two-part name with the first part being taken from a ballad and the second being a color. This was confirmed upon the title's release.
Lenore Dove is a Baird, and while it is unknown who her mother is because she died in childbirth, it could be Maude Ivory, whose headstone appears in the Covey's graveyard alongside Lucy Gray and Lenore Dove's.
Her father's identity is a mystery.
She can play the piano and accordion, the latter of which she calls her "tune box".
Gallery[]
Lenore Dove Baird/Gallery
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 14

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 12

↑ 4.0 4.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 4

↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 2

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 3

↑ 9.0 9.1 SNEAK PEEK: Suzanne Collins Reads from Sunrise on the Reaping - Coming March 18th on youtube.com

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 26

↑ 11.0 11.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 27

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Epilogue

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 4

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Epilogue

↑ A New Hunger Games Book Heads Back to Panem: Read an Exclusive Early Excerpt From Sunrise on the Reaping (Exclusive)




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White





