

Lepidus Malmsey

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Reporter for Capitol News



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes







"Maybe we should put it up on the scoreboard."
—Lepidus, suggesting the tributes be given a visual cue of who remained in the Hunger Games[src]
Lepidus Malmsey was a man who worked as a fledgling reporter for Capitol News, the main news organization within the Capitol at the time of the 10th Hunger Games. He was the chief reporter in charge of covering these games and was present throughout, providing updates to the Capitol.

Contents

1 History
2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Lepidus Malmsey play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Lepidus Malmsey served as a chief reporter for Capitol News, providing updates throughout the event. His coverage began at the Capitol Zoo, where he interviewed Lucy Gray Baird, the female tribute from District 12.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Lepidus Malmsey's job at Capitol News?
						
				
				
					
						Lepidus Malmsey served as a reporter for Capitol News, the primary news outlet in the Capitol during the 10th Hunger Games. His role was the chief reporter, responsible for covering the games and delivering updates. His first appearance was at the Capitol Zoo, where the tributes for the 10th Hunger Games were kept before the games commenced.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Lepidus Malmsey's first appearance in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Lepidus Malmsey's initial appearance was at the Capitol Zoo, following the caging of the 10th Hunger Games tributes. His role was to interview Lucy Gray Baird, the female tribute from District 12.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Lepidus Malmsey contribute to the coverage of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						As a Capitol News reporter, Lepidus Malmsey was the chief correspondent for the 10th Hunger Games. He interviewed Lucy Gray Baird at the Capitol Zoo, proposed a scoreboard visual cue for remaining tributes, and covered the Capitol Arena tour and bombing. Post-games, he sought last words from mentors of fallen tributes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Lepidus Malmsey's suggestion for the tributes in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the 10th Hunger Games, Lepidus Malmsey, a Capitol News reporter, proposed a visual cue for the tributes to indicate who was still in the competition. His idea was to display this information on the scoreboard.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


History[]
Lepidus Malmsey first appeared at the Capitol Zoo after the tributes for the 10th Hunger Games were placed in a cage there prior to the Games. He interviewed Lucy Gray Baird, asking her about being the female tribute from District 12. She told him that her family wasn't really from District 12, but were actually part of a performing group called the Covey and only got trapped in District 12 following the Dark Days. He told her that her rainbow dress had been a big hit in the Capitol. He then interviewed Lucy Gray's mentor, Coriolanus Snow, who had ended up in the zoo cage because of his desire to meet with his tribute. Snow told him that he felt that if his tribute was brave enough to be there, then he should be too. He said that he didn't have a choice after hearing her sing, that he was a fan.[1]
Lepidus was later present when Sejanus Plinth brought sandwiches to feed the tributes. He asked what he was up to, saying that surely the Capitol was feeding them. At this, Lucy Gray told him that she had last eaten the night before the Reaping, and slightly taken aback, he told her to enjoy her sandwich before turning to the other tributes. She then shouted at him the suggestion that other visitors to the zoo could bring food and he backed away, worried that her comments could be seen as a condemnation of the Capitol.[2]
Lepidus was next present during the tour of the Capitol Arena and covered its bombing.[3] Throughout the Hunger Games, he talked with the mentors after their tributes were killed in the games, asking them for last words before they left Heavensbee Hall at the Academy, where they had been stationed.[4]

Etymology[]
Lepidus was a Roman general and statesman who formed the Second Triumvirate alongside Octavian and Mark Antony.

Trivia[]
Lepidus is absent from the film adaptation, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. His role was absorbed by Lucretius Flickerman.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 5

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 9

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14







