

Leven Rambin

	
		
			
				
					
						
							2024
							
						
					
				
					
						
							2012
							
						
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
						
						
					
				
			
		
			
				
					
						
						
					
				
			
		
	




	
		Birth name
	
	Leven Alice Rambin



	
		Character
	
	Glimmer



	
		Birthday
	
	May 17, 1990



	
		Birthplace
	
	Houston, Texas, USA



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games film



	
		Years active
	
	2006–present



Leven Rambin is an American actress. She portrayed Glimmer in The Hunger Games film.[1]

Contents

1 Early life
2 Career

2.1 Glimmer's Game


3 Personal life
4 External links
5 References



Early life[]
Rambin was born in Houston, Texas. Her father, Joseph Howard Rambin III, is co-founder of Moody-Rambin, the largest locally owned commercial real estate firm in Houston. Her mother is the former Karen Stacy Guthrie. Her older brother, Joseph Rambin, is currently enrolled at The University of Alabama. Her older half-sister is Mary Rambin, blogger of "More Than Mary" and designer of the Moe handbag line, currently residing in Houston, Texas. She is the granddaughter of J. Howard Rambin, Jr, former CEO and president of Texaco oil company.
She began performing in school plays. She studied at the Houston School of Film and Theatre and at St. Francis Episcopal Day School where she starred in her first school play before relocating to Connecticut and later New York when she was cast on All My Children (her first professional acting role). While acting, she also pursued her high school diploma through the Texas Tech University Independent School District.

Career[]
Rambin joined the cast of ABC's All My Children in February 2004, portraying sisters Lily Montgomery and Ava Benton. In 2007, she was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Younger Actress in a Drama Series. She would later reprise her role as Lily for the show's 40th anniversary in 2010.
She also made appearances on Grey's Anatomy, Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles, Scoundrels, Wizards of Waverly Place, and CSI: Miami. In addition to various recurring and series regular roles on television, she made her film debut in Killer Film's independent picture, Gigantic, starring and produced by Paul Dano.
In April 2011, it was announced that Lionsgate and director Gary Ross cast Rambin in her first major studio film, in the role of Glimmer in the film adaptation of The Hunger Games novel. She was supposed to return to All My Children in August 2011 before the show's ABC network end in September, but her appearance had to be canceled due to a time conflict with her Hunger Games production schedule.
In late April 2012, Rambin was cast in a lead role in Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters. She portrayed Clarisse La Rue.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The cover of Rambin's memoir. 		 	 
Glimmer's Game[]
On May 16th, 2024, Rambin published a memoir about her acting career titled Glimmer's Game. This included, but was not exclusively about, what it was like to play Glimmer.[2]

Personal life[]
Rambin got engaged to producer Geoffrey James Clark in 2009 in the Bahamas. They broke off their engagement in November 2011. She married actor in Jim Parrack in 2015.

External links[]
 Leven Rambin at the Internet Movie Database
 Leven Rambin on Wikipedia
 Leven Rambin on X
Leven Rambin on Instagram
References[]


↑ Brian Gallagher (04-19-2011). The Hunger Games Adds Jack Quaid and Levin Rambin. Movieweb. Retrieved on 04-19-2011.

↑ https://www.instagram.com/p/C1DT4HguYtH/






