

Liam Hemsworth


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Liam Hemsworth



	
		Character
	
	Gale Hawthorne



	
		Birthday
	
	January 13, 1990



	
		Birthplace
	
	Melbourne, Victoria, Australia



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games film, The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Years active
	
	2007–present



Liam Hemsworth is an Australian actor who portrayed Gale Hawthorne in The Hunger Games film, The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, and The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, and the final installment, The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2.

Contents

1 Life and career

1.1 1990-2014
1.2 2007-2010
1.3 2011-present


2 Personal life

2.1 Philanthropy


3 Trivia
4 External links
5 References



Life and career[]
1990-2014[]
Hemsworth was born in Melbourne, Australia. He is the son of Leonie Hemsworth, an English teacher, and Craig Hemsworth, a social-services counselor. He has two older brothers, Chris Hemsworth and Luke Hemsworth, who also work as actors. Hemsworth has said that though there is competition for jobs among them, it is friendly: "We are brothers and we are always competitive, but it is a good thing, it pushes us and we are always happy whenever someone books something." When Hemsworth was in year 8, he and his family relocated to Phillip Island. Hemsworth says he spent much of his time there surfing with his brothers. In March 2009, Hemsworth moved to the United States to pursue his career there. He and his brother Chris first stayed in the guest house of Chris's manager, William Ward, before renting their own Los Angeles apartment.

2007-2010[]
Prior to becoming an actor, Hemsworth laid floors for six months. He began to seriously consider following his elder brothers' footsteps in high school by participating in school plays. Eventually, Hemsworth retained an agent. He attended his first audition at the age of sixteen and began his career in 2007, with guest spots on the shows Home and Away and McLeod's Daughters. The week of July 8, 2007, Hemsworth began filming episodes for Neighbours, an Australian soap opera his brother Luke had previously starred in. Hemsworth's character, Josh Taylor, was a recurring character from 2007 to 2008. In the show, Josh was an athletic paraplegic who supported and began a relationship with character Bridget Parker after she was paralyzed down one side of her body in a car crash. In 2008, Hemsworth began acting on the children's television show The Elephant Princess, playing Marcus, the attractive lead guitarist of the protagonist's band. Hemsworth later had roles in the television series Satisfaction, and starred in the British film Triangle. He also made a brief appearance as an MIT student in the film Knowing.
In 2009, Hemsworth was selected to act opposite Sylvester Stallone in Stallone's 2010 film, The Expendables, but his character was written out of the script (Hemsworth later co-starred in The Expendables 2). Hemsworth's brother, Chris, told Movieline that just a few hours after Hemsworth learned he would not appear in The Expendables, director Kenneth Branagh called to ask him to test for the lead role in the 2011 film Thor. Hemsworth moved to the United States in March 2009 for screen tests. Though he eventually lost the part to Chris in May, Disney announced later the same week that Hemsworth had landed the part of Will Blakelee in the 2010 drama The Last Song, based on the Nicholas Sparks novel by the same name. Hemsworth plays the love interest of Miley Cyrus's character in the film. Nikki Finke reported that Hemsworth had been in Los Angeles for just three weeks and had not yet found an agent when he was cast. Hemsworth next appeared in the music video for Cyrus' When I Look at You, which was recorded on August 16, 2009.
In September 2009, Hemsworth appeared at a dinner event to promote Foxtel, an Australian pay television company. In March 2010, Details magazine selected Hemsworth as one of their predictions for "The Next Generation of Hollywood's Leading Men". Later that month, it was announced that Hemsworth was in negotiations to star in Arabian Nights, a 3D action film that would be directed by Chuck Russell for Inferno Entertainment. It was later confirmed that he will be starring in the movie. He has also reportedly been offered the lead role in Northern Lights, after Twilight star Taylor Lautner withdrew from the David Ellison-financed project.
Hemsworth was the Nickelodeon Australian Kids' Choice Awards 2010 host. He and Miley Cyrus won the "Fave Kiss" category.
Hemsworth starred in the music video Colder Weather for Zac Brown Band.

2011-present[]
On April 4, 2011, Lionsgate announced Hemsworth to be one of the leads, Gale Hawthorne, in The Hunger Games, which was released in 2012. In June 2011, he became attached to war drama Love and Honor, which also stars Aimee Teegarden and Teresa Palmer.
In 2013, Hemsworth appeared in Empire State with Emma Roberts, and Paranoia, co-starring with Harrison Ford, Gary Oldman, and Amber Heard. The latter film was released in August to negative reviews and poor box-office receipts. Hemsworth's performance in Paranoia was panned, The New York Times concluded that "he ambles through the role like an obedient robot." The Hollywood Reporter felt "he never fully engages our [audience] sympathy."
He reprised his role, Gale, in The Hunger Games sequels, The Hunger Games: Catching Fire (2013), The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 (2014), and The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2 (2015).
On June 11, 2012, Los Angeles-based non-profit organization Australians in Film announced that Hemsworth would be honored at an exclusive Benefit Dinner on June 27, 2012, in Hollywood. Hemsworth attended the invitation only event, held at the Intercontinental Hotel in Century City, with his then fiancée Miley Cyrus. It was their first public appearance together as an engaged couple.

Personal life[]
While filming The Last Song in June 2009, Hemsworth began a relationship with his co-star Miley Cyrus. After three years of having a turbulent relationship, the couple announced their engagement in June 2012. They lived together in Los Angeles but ended their relationship in September 2013. They were reunited again, as of March 2016. Hemsworth married Cyrus in December 2018, but they divorced less than a year later.

Philanthropy[]
Hemsworth is the ambassador of the Australian Childhood Foundation. Hemsworth talked about his association with the foundation, "I have the best parents you can have. They have worked in child protection for twenty years and have only ever given me encouragement and support. The world is a scary enough place as it is for children. It is important that home should always be a safe place for them." When asked if he believed he was a hero to children, Liam said he did not know, but that he would like to be a good role model.

Trivia[]
He is 6'3" (1.91 m).
He was considered one of the 55 faces of the future by Nylon Magazine's Young Hollywood Issue.
Hemsworth is the brother-in-law of Elsa Pataky.
External links[]
 Liam Hemsworth at the Internet Movie Database
 Liam Hemsworth on X
 Liam Hemsworth on Wikipedia
References[]






