

Lil


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Young



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Mona Vojacek Koper





Lil may have been the lover of Arlo Chance, an ex-soldier and coal miner who killed three people in a bombing. She grew up in District 12 and was seen calling out to Arlo at his execution.[1] She was the sister of Spruce, who planned to free her from the Peacekeepers' base, but she was executed herself when the plan was discovered.[2]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Lil's fate in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Lil, a resident of District 12 in the Hunger Games, is no longer alive. She was potentially involved with Arlo Chance, a former soldier and coal miner responsible for a fatal bombing. Lil was also related to Spruce and was present during Arlo's execution.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Lil try to save Arlo Chance during his execution?
						
				
				
					
						During Arlo Chance's execution, Lil tried to save him by yelling out to him. She was restrained by her brother, Spruce. Arlo's last words were a plea for Lil to flee, but his voice was silenced by the hangman's noose. Lil's rescue attempt failed, leading to her own execution when a plot to liberate her from the Peacekeepers' base was uncovered.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did Arlo Chance scream for Lil to run?
						
				
				
					
						At the point of his execution by hanging, Arlo Chance implored Lil to escape. Lil's attempt to reach Arlo was thwarted by Spruce, and Arlo's desperate plea was abruptly silenced by the execution rope, his last words hauntingly repeated by jabberjays.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Lil yelled out to Arlo right before he was about to be hanged, attempting to reach him, but Spruce held her back. Arlo screamed for Lil to run, but his voice was cut off by the rope he was hanging from, and his calls were echoed by the jabberjays.[1] As Peacekeepers carried her away, Lil let out a last wail of despair, which was also picked up by the jabberjays.[3]
After Arlo's hanging, Lil was taken captive and held in a cell at the Peacekeepers' base. During this time, Billy Taupe Clade asked Sejanus Plinth to communicate with her and check whether she was all right, on behalf of her frantic family.[4] Spruce, Billy Taupe, and Sejanus later attempted to free Lil and run off north, but after Coriolanus Snow exposed them to Volumnia Gaul, Lil and Sejanus were hanged together for treason.[2]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lil at her execution. 		 	 
Physical description[]
Lil was a young woman with olive skin and long black hair.[1] When she was taken to be hanged, Coriolanus Snow thought she looked far younger than she really was, as Lil was weak with terror.[2]

Etymology[]
Lil might be short for Lily, Lillian, or some other variation of the name, coming from the eponymous flower. Lilies traditionally symbolize innocence and purity, and they are often used at funerals.

Trivia[]
Lil and Arlo were the inspiration for Lucy Gray to write and compose the "Hanging Tree" song.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 23

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 25




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





