

Livia Cardew


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Flora Li Thiemann





Livia Cardew was a female resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. She was assigned the male tribute from District 1, Facet.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Personality
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Livia Cardew play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Livia Cardew, a top-performing senior at the Academy in the Capitol, was selected as a mentor. However, her involvement concluded before the competition started. Snow later considered her as a potential spouse.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Livia Cardew's tribute in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Livia Cardew, an Academy student from the Capitol, mentored the male tribute, Treech. Treech secured the 3rd position out of 24 tributes, after being bitten by a venomous snake mutt dropped by Lucy Gray Baird.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of Livia Cardew's mother's profession in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The profession of Livia Cardew's mother, running the largest bank in the Capitol, provided the Cardew family with vast assets and influence. Livia Cardew, played by Flora Li Thiemann in the Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, was an Academy student and a mentor in the 10th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Livia Cardew's peers react to Coriolanus Snow's achievement?
						
				
				
					
						Coriolanus Snow's mentorship of Lucy Gray Baird, who charmed everyone with her reaping performance, sparked envy among his peers. This unexpected boon led him to recall the phrase 'Snow lands on top.' His potential impressed Dr. Gaul, who ensured his honorable discharge from the Peacekeepers and his subsequent enrollment at the University, where he also became an apprentice Gamemaker.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Her mother ran the largest bank in the Capitol.[1]
She was excited upon being assigned the male tribute from District 1, grinning, punching the air and shouting "Yes!"[1] She was the only one of the mentors who did not congratulate Coriolanus Snow for his idea to visit his tribute upon arrival, instead saying that she thought he had cheated and should be dismissed as a mentor immediately.[2] Snow was later amused to see footage of her flailing through a crowd in the wake of the gunfire from Arachne Crane's tribute, Brandy, being shot dead at the Capitol Zoo. He thought it ironic for her to behave this way, given that she had once called him "self-absorbed" for not being able to decipher the deeper meaning of a poem in rhetoric class.[3]
Her tribute was one of several killed in the bombing of the Capitol Arena. Following this, she was very vocal, demanding that new tributes be brought in from the districts to replace those who had been killed. Barring this, she wanted to be given Reaper Ash, as his mentor, Clemensia Dovecote, was in the hospital. However, this never came to fruition, so Livia's role in the 10th Hunger Games ended before the competition itself began.[4]
After his ill-fated relationship with Lucy Gray Baird, Snow mused that he might one day marry someone that he disliked who wouldn't be able to sway his heart and manipulate him. He specifically mentioned Livia Cardew, saying she would be "perfect". He imagined her being his first lady someday once he became president.[5]

Physical description[]
She was said to have a "pointed little face".[1] In the film she has long blonde hair and blue eyes.

Personality[]
She had a shrill voice and was known to be prone to gloating.[1] Livia constantly rivalled Coriolanus as a child, and was known to be rude and cruel toward him. She used to taunt Coriolanus for his parentless state when he was younger. Livia was also a bad sport, as she made it clear that she thought Coriolanus should be dismissed as a mentor following his entry in the Capitol Zoo,[2] was outraged at her tribute's death because it meant she would no longer have a chance of a prize.[4] She also sneered at Lucy Gray, thinking that she didn't have a chance in the Games, and she insulted those who supported the tribute.[6]  

Etymology[]
Livia shares her given name with Livia Drusilla, the wife of Rome's founder and first emperor, Augustus.

Trivia[]
Livia likely was a relative or ancestor of Fulvia Cardew, Plutarch Heavensbee's assistant in Mockingjay.
Drusilla Sickle also draws her name from the same person as Livia--Livia Drusilla.
It is heavily implied that she married Coriolanus Snow later down the line.[5] This would likely make Coriolanus Snow's descendants also descendants of the Cardews.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ 5.0 5.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






