

Lou Lou (canary)

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	At least a year



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping





Lou Lou was a canary owned by Maysilee Donner prior to the 50th Hunger Games. The name of this canary was the inspiration for the nickname of Lou Lou, Louella McCoy's body double.[1] Lou Lou may have been given to Asterid March after Maysilee's death.[2]

Biography[]
Sometime prior to the reaping for the 50th Hunger Games, Maysilee Donner came into possession of Lou Lou. When Lenore Dove Baird heard about Maysilee's new pet, she was enraged that Maysilee had encaged a bird, let alone a songbird. Lenore Dove complained about Lou Lou to Haymitch Abernathy.[1]
Before the Second Quarter Quell, President Snow brainwashed the daughter of District 11 rebels into thinking she was the recently deceased Louella McCoy. The other District 12 tributes did not want to refer to this body double as Louella, so they tried to think of a name that was close enough to not confuse her, but also not Louella. Maysilee suggested Lou Lou after her pet canary.  Although Lenore Dove had opposed Maysilee owning Lou Lou, Haymitch did not think this was an ample reason to reject the nickname for "Fake Louella," so the name was adopted.[1]

Trivia[]
In Catching Fire, Asterid mentions that after Maysilee died in the Games, Mr. and Mrs. Donner gave her Maysilee's old pet canary.[2] It is not entirely sure if this canary was Lou Lou. In Sunrise on the Reaping, Maysilee words it that she "used to have a pet canary by that name" (the name of Lou Lou).[1] This could be understood as meaning that either she had Lou Lou before, but that she died sometime prior to the Reaping, or that she had Lou Lou up to the reaping, but no longer considered Lou Lou hers because she would never see her again. The latter is more likely, because neither Sunrise on the Reaping nor Catching Fire ever indicate that Maysilee had more than one canary.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 10

↑ 2.0 2.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 12






