

Louella McCoy

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	13[1]



	
		Also known as
	
	Sweetheart (by Haymitch Abernathy)



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (50th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Seam in District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Mr. McCoy (father)Mrs. McCoy (mother)Cayson McCoy (older brother)Ima McCoy (older sister)Unnamed siblings



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female





	
		Eye Color
	
	Gray



	
		Hair
	
	Black


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping (upcoming)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Molly McCann[2]





Louella McCoy was one of two female tributes from District 12 chosen during the reaping to participate in the 50th Hunger Games.[3] 

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 50th Hunger Games
1.2 Death
1.3 Replacement
1.4 Legacy


2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Etymology
5 Gallery
6 Trivia
7 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the significance of the 2nd Quarter Quell in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						The 2nd Quarter Quell, marking the 50th Hunger Games, commemorated the quarter-century anniversary of the districts' defeat by the Capitol in the First Rebellion. This event was distinguished by enhanced celebrations and grandeur in the Games' preparation and proceedings. The unique twist in this Quell was the reaping of double the usual number of tributes, two males and two females from each district.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why were twice the number of tributes reaped for the 2nd Quarter Quell?
						
				
				
					
						For the 2nd Quarter Quell, or the 50th Hunger Games, the Capitol doubled the number of tributes. This was a reminder to the districts that two rebels died for each Capitol citizen killed during the Dark Days. Consequently, four tributes were selected from each district, intensifying the brutality of the event.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the Capitol's reason for the rules of the 2nd Quarter Quell?
						
				
				
					
						The rules of the 2nd Quarter Quell were designed by the Capitol to discourage rebellion by reminding citizens of the cost of insurrection. The rules reflected the actions of the rebels during the First Rebellion. To demonstrate its power, the Capitol forced children from the districts into a brutal competition. For the 2nd Quarter Quell, the Capitol doubled the number of tributes to symbolize that for each Capitol citizen killed during the Dark Days, two rebels died.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the fate of the District 12 female in the 50th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The female tribute from District 12 took part in the 50th Hunger Games, recognized as the 2nd Quarter Quell. Unfortunately, she did not make it through the games and was reported as deceased.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Louella and her family lived three doors down from the Abernathys. She had half a dozen brothers and sisters[1], including Ima and Cayson.[4] When she was born, her father took her into town and proudly held her up in the window of a school to show her off to everyone.[5] When she was five, she had a crush on Haymitch Abernathy for a week and told everyone he was her "sweetheart". She transferred her affections to Buster after he gave her a bullfrog.[6] 

50th Hunger Games[]
For the second Quarter Quell, the Capitol demanded that twice the number of tributes be reaped for the event. They chose this to remind the districts that for every Capitol citizen that was killed during the Dark Days, two rebels were also killed.[7] As a result, Louella was reaped alongside Maysilee Donner, Wyatt Callow and Haymitch Abernathy (after Woodbine Chance ran away). Of the four tributes from District 12 that year, hers was the first name to be called.[3] After the reaping, Plutarch Heavensbee asked for her and Haymitch to stay behind so he could rerecord their families' reactions to their reapings. The McCoys refused to give Plutarch what he wanted, so he sent Louella to get on the train.[1]
On the way to the Capitol, Louella told Haymitch it wasn't fair how he was handpicked by Drusilla Sickle. He immediately asked her to be his ally in the Games. After being offered food by an attendant, she refused to eat and when asked why, she was embarrassed to share her family's poor wealth with the attendant. Before she could answer, Maysilee demanded that they bring cutlery and plates. She then advised Louella not to let them treat her like an animal.[6]

Death[]
During the tribute parade, the horses carrying the District 12 chariot were startled. They bolted and caused the chariot to start buckling. Haymitch and Louella tried to hold on as the chariot hit others and crashed, but they were thrown backwards in the air. Louella hit the ground with force, cracked her head open and was killed upon impact. In his grief, Haymitch tried to prevent the Peacekeepers from taking her body and ran with her to President Snow's mansion, where he lay her broken body in front of it for him to look at and sarcastically applauded.[8]
After the Hunger Games ended with Haymitch as victor, Louella's body was returned to District 12 where she was buried.[9]

Replacement[]
Her death left District 12 with only three tributes, so the Capitol decided to cover up her death by producing a body double in the form of a tortured District 11 girl. The other District 12 tributes dubbed her replacement "Lou Lou".[10] Although the other districts' tributes questioned her sudden reappearance and "brain damage"[11], only District 11 and 12's tributes ever learned that she wasn't the real Louella.[12]

Legacy[]
When Haymitch first saw Katniss Everdeen as a little girl, he noted how she looked like Louella due to her braided hair and spunky attitude. After Katniss volunteered for the 74th Hunger Games, Haymitch's nickname for Louella "sweetheart" slipped out towards Katniss due to her reminding him of his friend and fellow tribute. After the Second Rebellion's victory, Haymitch revealed his friendship with Louella in order to contribute to Katniss and Peeta's memorial book.[13]

Physical description[]
Louella had a heart-shaped face, big gray eyes, and long, dark pigtail braids. Her fingernails were bitten down, and she also had a distinctive scar on her forehead from falling off the Abernathys' cistern.[10] After her capitol make-over, her eyebrows were more dramatic and penciled-in.[14][5] Her reaping outfit was a gingham dress that was made by her mother.[15]

Personality and traits[]
Coming from the McCoy family, she was a spunky young girl. She would put on a mask of bravery when put in front of the cameras, but relied on Haymitch to comfort her fears.[5]

Etymology[]
Her surname McCoy means "son of Aodh," which is an Irish word for "fire." This ties in well with the eventual girl on fire reminding Haymitch of Louella. It may also be a reference to the expression "the real McCoy," alluding to her being the real version of herself as opposed to Lou Lou.

Gallery[]

Trivia[]
Louella was the second tribute to die before the Games in Sunrise on the Reaping, which was during the Tribute Parade. The first was Woodbine Chance.
Louella is also the first known tribute to be replaced by a body double.
A young Katniss Everdeen reminded Haymitch Abernathy of Louella.[16]
Both Louella and her actress Molly McCann's last names begin with "McC."
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 2

↑ Post by The Hunger Games account

↑ 3.0 3.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 4

↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ 6.0 6.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 3

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 12

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 26

↑ 10.0 10.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 10

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 11

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 15

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Epilogue

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 5

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 4

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Epilogue




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White






