

Lucy Gray Baird


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	3–6 (Dark Days)16 (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Occupation
	
	MusicianVictor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Seam in District 12Panem



	
		Relatives
	
	Unnamed fatherUnnamed mother2 unnamed older siblingsBarb Azure Baird (cousin)Maude Ivory Baird † (younger cousin)The Covey (adoptive family)
Distant relativesLenore Dove Baird †Burdock Everdeen †Katniss EverdeenPrimrose Everdeen †



	
		Weapon
	
	PoisonSnakes



	
		Fate
	
	Unknown, presumed deceased[1]




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female





	
		Eye Color
	
	Dark brown (film)



	
		Hair
	
	Dark (book)Brown (film)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and SnakesSunrise on the Reaping (on television)



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	The Hunger Games (indirectly mentioned)



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Rachel Zegler[2]







"My friends call me Lucy Gray — I hope you will, too!"
—Lucy Gray at the District 12 reaping ceremony[src]
Lucy Gray Baird was a female tribute from District 12, a Capitol favorite, and the eventual victor of the 10th Hunger Games. Her mentor was Coriolanus Snow, a top-performing student at the Academy who developed feelings for her along the way.[3]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Early life
1.2 Covey Genocide
1.3 The 10th Hunger Games

1.3.1 Reaping
1.3.2 The Capitol
1.3.3 The Games


1.4 Return to District 12
1.5 Reckoning
1.6 An Unknown Fate


2 Family

2.1 Immediate family
2.2 The Covey


3 Alliances
4 Victims

4.1 Film adaptation


5 Personality
6 Physical description
7 Etymology
8 Trivia
9 Behind the scenes
10 Gallery
11 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What is the significance of Lucy Gray Baird's relationship with Coriolanus Snow?
						
				
				
					
						Lucy Gray Baird, a talented singer from District 12 and part of the Covey, is mentored by Coriolanus Snow in the Hunger Games. Her captivating performance and charm not only make Coriolanus fall for her but also earn him the envy of his peers. This relationship prompts Coriolanus to reflect on the notion that 'Snow lands on top.'
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What role did Lucy Gray Baird play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Lucy Gray Baird, a tribute from District 12, became the victor. She was popular in the Capitol and was mentored by Coriolanus Snow, a high-achieving Academy student who fell for her. She composed and sang 'The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird' during the Games, a message for the Covey about Billy Taupe. Post her victory, she returned to District 12.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Lucy Gray Baird and her family survive as traveling musicians in Panem?
						
				
				
					
						Lucy Gray Baird and her family, as members of the Covey, a nomadic group, made their living in Panem as traveling musicians during the First Rebellion. Tragically, Peacekeepers rounded up the Covey and killed many, including Lucy Gray's immediate family.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the mystery surrounding Lucy Gray Baird's origin and her people's territories?
						
				
				
					
						Born three years before the First Rebellion, Lucy Gray Baird is a child of the Covey, a nomadic group with no fixed territories. Her mother, also a Covey member, had two other children, their names remain unknown.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the fate of Lucy Gray Baird in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						Lucy Gray Baird, a victor of the 10th Hunger Games and a musician from District 12, is presumed deceased. Speculations suggest Mayor Lipp might have had her killed in revenge for Mayfair's death. Her name gradually faded, remembered by only a few in the Capitol and District 12.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Early life[]
As members of a nomadic group known as the Covey, Lucy Gray and her mother, father, oldest sibling, and middle sibling made their living in Panem as traveling musicians amidst the Dark Days. It is unknown which territories their people originated from.

Covey Genocide[]
Prior to the events of The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Peacekeepers had rounded up the Covey and killed many of them.[4] This included Lucy Gray's immediate family members, her father getting "shot dead" for trying to fight capture and her mother getting her "head broken" for trying to keep the family together. Lucy Gray's older siblings were killed as well, leaving Lucy Gray, some other members of the Covey, and her youngest cousin, Maude Ivory, the only survivors.[5] They were trapped in District 12, where they were raised by an unnamed man, though he didn't really care for them, but didn't mess with them either. After the man died of the black lung, the Covey made their living doing musical performances. At some point, Lucy Gray had started a relationship with fellow Covey member Billy Taupe Clade, though it had ended by the time of the 10th Hunger Games, when Lucy Gray had learned that he was also dating Mayfair Lipp, the District 12 mayor's daughter, whom she would develop a rivalry with.  

The 10th Hunger Games[]
Reaping[]

"You can't take my sass. You can't take my talking. You can kiss my ass. And then keep on walking."
—Lucy Gray defiantly singing during the Reaping[src]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lucy Gray after being hit at the Reaping 		 	 
Lucy Gray was purposely reaped by Mayor Lipp, at the request of his daughter, Mayfair, who had a relationship with Lucy Gray's ex-lover, Billy Taupe, and was furious to discover that he had also been dating Lucy Gray.[6] On her way up to the stage, Lucy Gray dropped a snake down Mayfair's blouse, causing Mayor Lipp to slap Lucy Gray across the face, resulting in a horrible bruise. When it seemed like she might cry, members of the Covey in the audience began singing to cheer her up, and she joined in with them. Even the Peacekeepers enjoyed the show and Lucy Gray spoke to the Capitol audience, saying that she hoped they would call her "Lucy Gray," just like her friends did.[7]

The Capitol[]

"You could start by thinking I could actually win."
—Lucy Gray to her mentor, Coriolanus Snow, on how he could repay her for saving his life[src]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Coriolanus Snow and Lucy Gray at the Capitol Zoo. 		 	 
Lucy Gray first met her mentor, Coriolanus Snow, when he came to meet her when the tributes of the 10th Hunger Games arrived in the Capitol, via a cargo train. She did not seem to think much of him at first, but was impressed by his pluck when he boarded the train, which brought the tributes to a cage in the Capitol Zoo. She protected him from the other tributes, who wanted to kill him.[8] She then spoke kindly to the Capitol children visiting the zoo, who seemed enamored by her, with one even giving her a potato to eat, and charmed a reporter, Lepidus Malmsey, who told her that her colorful dress had been a big hit in the Capitol.[4] Later, Snow returned to visit her at the zoo. He suggested that she might sing again for the Capitol audience, though she wasn't entirely sure what she would get out of it. She also revealed that the tributes weren't being fed, save for what little scraps they were getting from visitors to the zoo.[9] Later, the tributes were brought to the Academy's Heavensbee Hall in order for the mentors to get information about them for a questionnaire. Lucy Gray was one of the few that would even speak, telling Snow about her history with the Covey and the two of them bonding in a way over the fact they were both orphans.[5]
As the time before the start of the Hunger Games stretched on, Snow worried that his tribute would starve to death before they even began.[10] Things, however, took a dramatic turn when the Capitol Arena was bombed during a tour held for the mentors and tributes. Snow was buried under rubble, but Lucy Gray saved him, dragging him to safety. Afterward, the two met and Snow told her that he didn't know how to repay her for what she had done for him. She replied that he could start by thinking that she could actually win the Hunger Games.[11]
Lucy Gray's words forced Snow to reconsider his strategy towards her. Although he knew that he could make her popular with the audience, he had never really considered the possibility of her being a victor before. He worked with her to plot a strategy for survival and eventual victory. During the interviews, Lucy Gray played guitar and sung a song that once again moved the Capitol audience, "The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird." By the time she was finished, there were few dry eyes in the audience, but Snow was jealous, due to the song's reference to a lost lover.[12] He told her as much, and gave her a token, his mother's compact, with the intention that she use it to smuggle rat poison into the arena to poison her fellow tributes. She understood him instantly,[13] and told him in response that the only boy her heart had a sweet spot for was him, and gave him a kiss.[14]

The Games[]

"You're headed for heaven; The sweet old hereafter; And I've got one foot in the door"
—Lucy Gray, singing to the snake muttations that were released into the Capitol Arena[src]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lucy Gray in the arena 		 	 
The 10th Hunger Games opened with Lucy Gray an absolute crowd favorite. Snow's interview strategy had many viewers half-believing that Lucy Gray was Capitol-born and not from the Districts.[14] The games opened with the sound of a gong and a scrimmage for a pile of weapons set within the center of the arena. Though some of the tributes went for the weapons, Lucy Gray fled immediately for one of the tunnels which had been opened up by the bombings.[15] She was not seen until the second day of the Games, when a rabid Jessup Diggs, her fellow tribute from District 12, was chasing her. Jessup cornered Lucy Gray up the remains of a concession stand. At this point, Snow remembered something that he had read about rabies victims: that they experience hydrophobia, or the fear of water. He readied his communicuff to send in numerous bottles of water to scare him. His own mentor, Lysistrata Vickers, however, realized what was happening and waved Snow off, sending in the water herself instead. She knew that her own tribute could not win, so she wanted the other tribute from District 12 to win instead. Upon seeing the water, Jessup entered a frenzy and fell from the stands, his bones breaking the sound heard as he hit the ground. Lucy Gray comforted him as he lay dying, telling him that he could "sleep" now. She then took some of the remaining bottles of water to hydrate herself and used more of it to clean Jessup's face, before closing his eyes with a handkerchief given to her before the Games by Snow. She then collected a sponsor gift of bread and cheese and exited into a near tunnel, then saw Reaper Ash approaching. He let her run into the tunnels while taking the remaining water bottles.[16]
Snow was summoned to the office of Dr. Volumnia Gaul, the head Gamemaker for the 10th Hunger Games. There, she told him that one of the other mentors, Gaius Breen, had died from his wounds sustained in the bombing of the Capitol Arena. She told him that there would be repercussions and that it was his "girl" who had given him the idea. He then realized what she had in mind: to unleash her specially bred snake mutts upon the tributes in the Capitol Arena. Having seen first-hand the unusual and deadly nature of the snakes, and knowing something of how they worked, he slipped a handkerchief previously used by Lucy Gray into their tank in order to familiarize them with her scent.[17] On the fourth day, Wovey, the female tribute from District 8, passed out and died, clutching an empty water bottle. Nobody found it suspicious, however, Coriolanus Snow, noticing something slightly off about her spittle, realized that she had most likely been poisoned by Lucy Gray. Not long after this, Dr. Gaul released the snake muttations into the arena, as Snow had suspected she would.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lucy Gray sings to the snakes 		 	 
The snakes behaved as Snow expected, immediately fanning out and attacking tributes. They managed to find victims, but then Lucy Gray emerged from one of the tunnels, doing a sort of dance and singing a simple tune on "la." Her tune seemed to draw the snakes from all over the arena, surrounding her and swarming her dress, until she appeared to have a brilliant skirt of weaving reptiles.[18] She then began a soft, sweet song which mesmerized both the snakes and the audience of the Hunger Games. As she released her last note, the snakes began to stir, but she started softly humming and the snakes relaxed around her, contented.
The games continued until only three were left: Lucy Gray, Reaper, and Treech, the male tribute from District 7. Approached by Lepidus Malmsey of Capitol News, Snow tried to play up the attention that Lucy Gray had attracted from the Capitol audience, stating that he felt a great injustice may have occurred by her even being in District 12 at all and that if others felt with the same way, they knew what to do. His smooth words resulted in a barrage of donations, but it was of little help, as he already received more than enough to feed her for weeks. Not long after this, Lucy Gray materialized from the tunnels, apparently trying to figure out who was still left in the Games. She was set upon by Treech, who was carrying a large ax. He raised it for the strike, but she flung herself into his arms, avoiding the swing, and his eyes widened in horror as he realized what she had done. He shoved her away, tearing the snake from his neck, but it was too late. He collapsed to his knees, smashing the snake into the ground, but fell dead in the dirt.
With only her and Reaper left, Lucy Gray set up a meticulous plan, infuriating Reaper by moving pieces of flag that he had used to cover the dead tributes' corpses. She took advantage of the fact he had not eaten much for many days-- a symptom of the rabies he'd contracted from Jessup-- to tire him out. Exhausted and dehydrated, Reaper then desperately drank out of a poisoned puddle. He made it to Treech's body and only half-covered himself with the flag before his body gave out. At the time, nobody was sure if he was really dead. Sitting on the bleachers at the time, Lucy Gray waited thirty minutes before going to check his body. Not seeming to find a pulse, she closed his eyelids, then carefully arranged the flagpole over the tributes and sat against a pole to wait. Finally convinced, the Gamemakers declared her the victor.[19]

Return to District 12[]

"You're mine and I'm yours. It's written in the stars."
—Lucy Gray to Coriolanus Snow[src]
Upon leaving the Capitol Arena, Lucy Gray Baird was given a thorough search, something which was standard procedure. At that time, they discovered the compact which she had used to smuggle the rat poison. This, combined with the discovery of the handkerchief which Snow had used to expose the snakes to Lucy Gray's scent, saw to it that he was expelled from the Academy and made to enroll in the Peacekeepers. He then asked to be transferred to District 12 so that he might see Lucy Gray again.[20]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lucy Gray performing "Nothing You Can Take" 		 	 
Lucy Gray Baird was sent back to District 12, where she resumed her life performing with the Covey at The Hob. Snow watched, holding his breath, as she appeared on stage, introduced as being fresh back from her engagement as the Capitol. She then entertained the crowd with a bright, lively number. She continued with the song she had sung on the day of her reaping, Snow realizing the truth of the words she sang, "Nothing you can take from me was ever worth keeping!" as the Capitol had tried to take everything from her and failed. She rounded out the night with the song "Down in the Valley," and Snow lapped in the words, "So I can see my true love go by." He moved in to meet her, but there was a disturbance in the Hob, caused by the appearance of her scorned lover, Billy Taupe.[21]
Billy Taupe's appearance ended up creating chaos in the Hob and Snow was denied his meeting with Lucy Gray that evening. The next day, however, Snow spoke with Sejanus Plinth, his former classmate and mentor who had joined him as a Peacekeeper recruit in District 12. Plinth told him that he had learned that Lucy Gray lived in a place near the woods called the Seam and he could take her there. They set off and Snow finally had his long-awaited meeting. He discovered her in the Meadow next to Shamus, the Covey's goat, strumming a song which brought to mind a hanging which he had witnessed two days previously. She at first reacted skittishly to his approach, but admitted it was only because she was still skittish from the arena. They hugged, him telling her that she knew he would find her. She admitted that she had hoped, but she didn't know for sure, and the odds didn't seem in her favor. He gave her ice, a rare treat in the hot days of summer, and she asked what had brought him to her meadow.
He told her that he was just spending time with his girl and that he wanted to hear what had happened to her in the Games, off-camera. The two exchanged stories, and Lucy Gray admitted that she knew something of Snow's foray into the arena to rescue Plinth, in which he had killed the tribute Bobbin. She didn't breathe easy again until he sent in the water for her and she knew he was alive. He admitted that he had felt useless to her, but she promised that everything he had done for her was important. She asked him about the snakes and he admitted the truth of what he had done with the handkerchief. She told him that having saved each other's lives it was written in the stars that they were responsible for each other. She asked if he might write Pluribus Bell for more strings for her guitar, telling him that she had money that Dean Casca Highbottom had given her secretly. This shocked Snow, as Highbottom hated him, and he didn't understand why Highbottom would give money to his girl.
She took him to meet the rest of her family of the Covey, but the meeting was interrupted when they learned that Billy Taupe had come around again and was talking with Sejanus Plinth. Lucy Gray apologized to him for having to deal with her baggage and, amused, he replied that it was in the stars.[22] She then told Plinth that her younger cousin and fellow Covey member, Maude Ivory, was upset at his shirking the work she had given him to talk with Taupe. She told Taupe to go away and not come back and he asked if she would sic her Peacekeepers on him if he didn't. She told him that there was no walking back what he had done, that he was still running with the girl who had tried to get her killed. He asked where he was supposed to go and she bit his hand. He sniped at Snow, telling him that he had a few surprises waiting for him before leaving. Afterward, Lucy Gray told Snow that what Taupe was implying wasn't true - that she sometimes had to flirt with people as part of her job, but she was loyal. She said that she hadn't come back from the Capitol for more of the same and he told her to make a new life with him. They made plans to meet again the coming Saturday, as the Covey had a gig performing at a wedding.[23]

Reckoning[]

Lucy Gray: "Hm. So they keep me safe. And what do I give up for that?"
Coriolanus: "Give up? Why, nothing."
Lucy Gray: "The Covey did. Can't travel. Can't perform without their say-so. Fight getting round up, and you get shot dead like my daddy. Try to keep your family together, and you get your head broken like my mama. What if I think that price is too high to pay? Maybe my freedom's worth the risk."
—Lucy Gray, discussing her philosophy of freedom, with Coriolanus Snow[src]
At their next meeting, Snow met Lucy Gray backstage. He told her about his recent project with the Peacekeepers, capturing mockingjays and jabberjays. She found it distasteful, the way the Capitol controlled the birds, and didn't like the way the Capitol kept them caged up. She asked him if he always felt free to speak his mind, noting that her own father had been killed for speaking his mind. He shot back that his own father had been killed by a rebel sniper and things briefly became frosty between them, but they patched things up. She told him that the Covey was planning a trip to a lake in the woods the next day, asking if he wanted to come along. Snow agreed, delighted at the idea of going somewhere pleasurable. Before he left, he listened to Maude Ivory perform the song "Lucy Gray," the ballad after which Lucy Gray Baird had been named. It, however, only left him confused, as the song was about a ghost-girl and he had never been good at rhetoric.[24]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lucy Gray and Coriolanus at the lake 		 	 
The next day, the group set off on the journey to the lake. Along the way, the group debated the meaning of the "Lucy Gray" song. Lucy Gray Baird told them all that the true meaning of the song was a mystery, just like herself. As they settled in at the lake, Lucy Gray told Snow that she was sorry she had upset him the night before. He agreed that he had over-reacted, telling her that he believed they needed the Capitol to maintain order. She asked him if he really thought the Hunger Games were right and he answered that he wasn't even sure why they did them, but that the Capitol was the only thing keeping people safe from people's animal desires. Lucy Gray asked what it was that she gave up for safety. He replied that it was nothing, but she didn't think so, noting that the Covey had taken from them their ability to travel, to sing certain songs they wanted and to even keep their family together. She told him that he wanted to think for himself and she knew because of what he had done for her in the Games. Afterward, she complimented Clerk Carmine for bringing some katniss, explaining to Snow that it was an edible plant and in a few weeks it would grow potatoes that would be good for roasting.
The group had a fish lunch and contemplated the colorful clouds in the sky. Lucy Gray explained to Snow that each of the members of the Covey got their first name from a ballad and their last name from a color. At one point, Lucy Gray commented that Clerk missed Billy Taupe and Snow asked if she did. She replied immediately that she hadn't since the reaping, explaining that Taupe had bet he could have both her and Mayfair Lipp. She told him that he had tried to meet in the meadow and he became jealous, despite her claim that she couldn't ever trust him again. She told Snow that she trusted him, but when he asked her why, she said she would have to give it some thought.[25]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lucy Gray and Coryo after Billy Taupe gets shot 		 	 
At the next performance at the Hob, Lucy Gray performed a downbeat number, "I'll Sell You For a Song," which irritated Snow, as it reminded him of Taupe. The two then accidentally stumbled upon a secretive rebel meeting in which Sejanus Plinth was plotting with Billy Taupe and a man named Spruce to escape up north. Spruce was suspicious of their presence, but Plinth tried to smooth it over, telling Spruce that Snow was like his brother and would cover for them. Spruce then motioned to Lucy Gray, asking about her. Billy Taupe replied that she was his girl and Lucy Gray agreed, "If you'll take me." Spruce asked about Snow and Lucy Gray lied, claiming that he was seeing her cousin, Barb Azure Baird. Snow was unsure exactly what was going on, but decided to play along. Things ignited, however, when Mayfair Lipp showed up, threatening to expose the group. She got in a jibe at Lucy Gray, asking how she had enjoyed the Capitol and then made to leave, but Spruce raised his shotgun to shoot her. In response, Billy Taupe knocked him to the ground, but Snow raised his Peacekeeper rifle and shot Mayfair instead. He then told Lucy Gray to run and get back onstage, but Billy Taupe shouted that if he was going to swing, then she would swing with him, so Spruce shot him through the chest. Lucy Gray stared at his body, shocked, and Snow ushered her back out onstage, telling her that she was never there. Lucy Gray then played crowd control, keeping all the Covey onstage until the program was over. She and Snow escaped detection, but thanks to earlier treachery by Snow, Plinth was arrested as a traitor to the Peacekeepers and executed at the hanging tree. Lucy Gray was weeping near the front of the crowd as she stared up at Sejanus, wearing an old gray dress and a black scarf hiding her hair.[6]
Snow was wracked with guilt about his betrayal and worry that he would be implicated in the crime. He returned to the Hob, where Lucy Gray performed a song called "Pure as the Driven Snow," which, based on the lyrics and title, could only be about him. Afterward, he asked if she was alright and she told him that it had been awful, watching him die and that she would never be able to thank him for killing Mayfair to protect her and the rest of the Covey. He told her she was safe, but she said that this wasn't really true: Mayor Lipp was convinced she had killed them both and was on the Peacekeepers day and night to arrest her. She told Snow that she was going to run away, fleeing north like the others had planned. He told her that they would go together tomorrow, as he was sure that if he didn't, they would find his gun and connect him to Mayfair's murder. They promised to meet the next day at dawn. He wasn't sure where to meet, but then he heard her sing "The Hanging Tree". Although he was annoyed at hearing another Billy Taupe song, he realized that she was singing it to him, that "Snow lands on top." He rose to meet her at dawn the next morning, but before he could do so, he was told that he had passed his test to train as a Peacekeeper officer and was slated to leave for District 2 the next morning.[26]
Despite this news, Snow met with Lucy Gray anyway, sure that any moment someone would find the evidence of his guilt and his only choice was to run. He told her that she was all that mattered to him. He told her that the Peacekeeper commander had ordered her to stop singing "The Hanging Tree," as it was too dark. They took off, her saying that she was leaving behind her guitar for Maude Ivory. Snow realized that they didn't seem to be heading directly north and she told him that she wanted to see the lake one last time. As she said her goodbyes, Snow said that there wasn't much to miss and she said that she would miss her music and her pretty birds. He told her that he wouldn't miss people, that they were mostly awful, but she replied that it wasn't people that were awful so much as what the world did to them. As they walked, he let slip a reference to having killed three people. Confused, she asked who the third was and he claimed that he killed the old him so that he could come with her.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lucy Gray goes to pick katniss 		 	 
They took rest in a shack, where Snow was shocked to discover guns, including the weapon that he had used to kill Mayfair. Casually, he asked Lucy Gray if she should take them along and she replied that she'd rather not, that she didn't trust them. After they started a fire, she told Snow that she was going to gather some katniss from a patch by the lake. Left alone to think, Snow realized that with the evidence in hand, he could bury what had happened and make a new life for himself. He knew that living wild wasn't for him, and as Lucy Gray took a long time with the katniss, his thoughts became doubting, thinking of the insinuations that Taupe had made against her. He walked outside, searching for her, and realized that she must have figured out that Plinth was the third person he killed. He shouted after her and searched, eventually finding her orange scarf lying across some briars. He then reached for it, only to be bitten by a snake.
Shocked and angered, Snow expected to die, but found he was still standing. He figured that Lucy Gray must be about to return to the shack, not about to confront him with only a knife. He estimated her position and fired a spray of bullets, but they did not connect. He called after her, telling her it was not too late to work something out, but in return, Lucy Gray sang lyrics from "The Hanging Tree," emphasizing the fact that she knew the truth of what had happened to Plinth. The mockingjays then picked up her song and Snow realized the deviousness of her plan, using them to cover for her. Shouting her name, he sprayed the trees with bullets, but couldn't be sure if anything connected.

An Unknown Fate[]
Instead of going to District 2, Snow was brought to the Capitol by Dr. Gaul and he learned that she had erased all record of the 10th Hunger Games. The name of Lucy Gray would fade, known only a distant memory in the minds of the select segment in the Capitol who had followed the 10th Hunger Games and those who had known her in District 12.[27] Snow later received a letter which stated that back in District 12, everyone thought that Mayor Lipp had Lucy Gray killed as revenge for the death of Mayfair, but nobody could prove it. A new commander had outlawed shows at the Hob. Snow would sometimes remember a moment of sweetness and wish that things had gone differently, but he felt that things would never have worked out between him and Lucy Gray, that they were too different. He was happy to think of her as a ghost girl that "could fly around District 12 as much as she liked, but she and her mockingjays could never harm him again."[28] 
Forty years later, Lucy Gray was considered District 12's mysterious victor who had all but vanished from memory in the district.[29] The Covey had a grave for in their secret graveyard with the poem on it suggesting that the Covey believed her to possibly still be alive, at least when they put up the grave marker. The poem on the grave marker read "yet some maintain that to this day she is a living child; that you may see sweet Lucy Gray upon the lonesome wild."[30] Lenore Dove Baird refused to talk about Lucy Gray with her boyfriend Haymitch Abernathy, possibly because the story was too secret or too painful. Lenore Dove would add scraps of Lucy Gray's dress to her wardrobe as a way to honor her memory.[29]
Snow hinted at his past with Lucy Gray while talking with Haymitch before the 50th Hunger Games. Snow surprised Haymitch with his knowledge of the Covey and their traditions, and bitterly offered Haymitch romance advice on his own Covey girl, Lenore Dove.[31]
While Haymitch was imprisoned following the Games, Snow arranged for him to see the footage of Lucy Gray performing "The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird" before the Capitol audience. Haymitch finally understood some of the mystery surrounding her and realized that the man Lucy Gray was singing to was Snow, and that she was how Snow knew so much about the Covey.[29] On his way home to District 12, Haymitch pondered the fate of Lucy Gray while thinking about Lenore Dove. He wondered if she was still alive or if Snow had killed her, but dismissed the idea as Snow would've been only a boy.[32]
Haymitch later stumbled across Lucy Gray's grave in the Covey's secret graveyard while looking for Lenore Dove's.[30]

Family[]
Immediate family[]
By the time of the 10th Hunger Games, Lucy Gray was left as an orphan with no immediate family.[5] Her father was shot dead for speaking out and trying to resist the Peacekeeper roundup,[24] and her mother "[got her] head broken" for trying to keep her family together.[25] Alongside her parents, Lucy Gray also lost her two unnamed older siblings.[5] 

The Covey[]
After the deaths of Lucy Gray's immediate family, the six remaining Covey children were taken in by an old man for a fee. This included Lucy Gray and her two Baird cousins, Barb Azure and Maude Ivory; as well as Billy Taupe Clade, Clerk Carmine Clade, and Tam Amber. The man didn't raise the children, but he didn't "much mess with [them]" either, and Lucy Gray expressed gratitude towards him for housing them. He died of black lung the year prior to her reaping, but some of the Covey were old enough to manage things by then.[5]

Alliances[]
Before the 10th Hunger Games began, Lucy Gray and Jessup formed an alliance so that "the District 12 tributes [would be] going down together".[10] The two had formed a close bond early on, which Coriolanus thought "was rarely seen in tributes from the same District", with Jessup swearing to act as Lucy Gray's protector.[14]
However, Jessup contracted rabies at the zoo, and his condition worsened to the point of delirium and aggression during the Games. He attempted to attack Lucy Gray, so she ran away and climbed a concession stand. When the sponsors' water bottles were dropped near Jessup, he became frantic and fell off the stand, breaking his bones. As he was dying, Lucy Gray sat beside him and offered comfort, telling him he could "sleep now". Afterward, she closed his eyes and washed his face for respect.[16]

Victims[]
During the 10th Hunger Games, Lucy Gray killed Wovey, the District 8 female, by poisoning a water bottle with rat poison hidden in Snow's compact. Apparently, Lucy Gray was "gunning for Coral", though.[22] Next, she used one of the snake muttations against Treech, the District 7 male, in self-defense. When it was just her and Reaper left, she poisoned a puddle and exhausted Reaper to make him thirsty, at which point he drank.[19] She later claimed it was an act of mercy, as Jessup had spat in Reaper's eye at the zoo and given him rabies.[22]

Film adaptation[]
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, her poisoned water bottle killed Dill, the District 11 female tribute. Later, while hiding from the other tributes inside an air vent, she sprinkled rat poison onto Treech, killing him. In this adaptation, she was not responsible for any other deaths.[33]

Personality[]
Lucy Gray had a confident, seemingly effortless stage presence. She was able to quickly win over audiences at the Hob and in the Capitol alike with her charms. Coriolanus describes her usual show-characteristics as a glamorous stage personality. She was a girl filled with sass and heart, with nothing but love for her family. Despite this, she showed signs of trauma from her time in the Hunger Games, saying that she still had "one foot in the arena."[22] 

Physical description[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lucy Gray Baird at the reaping 		 	 

"Sixteen going on thirty-five, and a hard thirty-five at that."
—Casca Highbottom's observation of Lucy Gray.[src]
Lucy Gray was described with dark, curly hair which was pulled up and woven with limp wildflowers at the reaping. During that time, she also wore her signature colorful dress made of a rainbow of ruffles of colors of raspberry pink, royal blue, and daffodil yellow ruffle, now raggedy but once fancy, which drew the eye as to "a tattered butterfly in a field of moths".[7] Later, for her interview, Tigris made the filth and soot on her dress vanish, leaving fresh, starchy rows of rainbow ruffles.[12] During the reaping and the interview, Lucy Gray wore makeup - her eyes were shadowed blue and lined with black, her cheeks rouged, and her lips stained a somewhat messy red.[7] Pluribus Bell said she looked like "someone who knows how to have fun".[12]
During the rest of her stay in the Capitol, she didn't wear her makeup, and her lips were chapped, her hair loose, her rainbow dress dusty and rumpled. She was also struck by the mayor, and the mark was described as a deep purple bruise, which Lucy Gray said she could only imagine 'how hideous' it looks.[8]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lucy Gray at the Hanging Tree 		 	 
When she returned to District 12, she wore a gray dress, like her namesake, as well as a black scarf during Arlo Chance's hanging.[6] She also wore braids during the Games.[34] Although no specific description is given of her speech within the novel, in a clip introducing the character, author Suzanne Collins read Lucy Gray as having an accent like those from the Deep South region of the United States.

Etymology[]
Her name, Lucy Gray, originates from a real life poem, "Lucy Gray," written by William Wordsworth. The poem itself is performed as a song by Maude Ivory.[24] She was the sole member of the Covey to have both parts of their name pulled from a ballad.[25] Her surname, Baird, is derived from the word "bard", meaning "poet" or a professional singer who tells stories through song. It is also only one letter off from "bird", which the Covey are often compared to in the novel.

Trivia[]
Of the tributes in the 10th Hunger Games, Lucy Gray was tied for the most kills with Coral at three (Lucy Gray's victims were Wovey, Treech, and Reaper). However, two of them were not direct kills.
Lucy Gray and Peeta Mellark were both District 12 victors known for their charisma. They were also both the youngest of three children, and they were the only surviving members of their respective families.
She was indirectly mentioned in The Hunger Games as District 12's first victor.[35]
Lucy Gray is the earliest known victor. If she survived her encounter with Snow and her subsequent disappearance, she may also be the oldest, having won at 16 the year prior to Mags Flanagan, who was 16 herself when she won the 11th Hunger Games and survived to the age of eighty.
Her favorite food was her mother's bread pudding.[5]
Various facts about Lucy Gray have prompted fan speculation that she could be a relative of Katniss,  either through one of her cousins (most popularly Maude Ivory) or as a direct ancestor (making her Katniss' paternal grandmother).
Lucy Gray wrote "The Hanging Tree", and was a talented singer.
She knew of wild herbs such as katniss and stated her preference for that name over swamp potatoes.
She and the rest of the Covey knew of the lake outside District 12.
The Covey collected milk from their pet goat Shamus, similar to Primrose Everdeen with her goat Lady.
Sunrise on the Reaping confirms the theory to be true, revealing Lucy Gray is related to Katniss's father, Burdock Everdeen through his mother's family who were members of the Covey in some way.
Rachel Zegler stated on Twitter that she played Lucy Gray in the film as a Gemini,[36] and she imagined the character's birthday would be May 24th.[37]
Behind the scenes[]
Author Suzanne Collins spoke about Lucy Gray Baird in an interview, regarding The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. She stated that in the first chapter of The Hunger Games, she made a reference to a fourth District 12 victor, but that Katniss didn't seem to know anything about the person worth mentioning. Her story is not well-known in Panem in the future, due to Dr. Gaul erasing nearly all recordings of the 10th Hunger Games, but she lives on through her music. Her other legacy is that she introduced entertainment to the Hunger Games. Collins had some sense when writing the reference of who the character might be, but the character evolved a lot from that point.[38]
Josh Andrés Rivera and Rachel Zegler— the actors for Sejanus and Lucy Gray, respectively— were dating at the time they were in The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes. They were also co-stars in West Side Story.
Gallery[]
Lucy Gray Baird/Gallery
References[]


↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 27

↑ Rubin, Rebecca (May 31, 2022). Rachel Zegler Cast in ‘Hunger Games’ Prequel as Lucy Gray Baird. Variety. Retrieved on May 31, 2022.

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28

↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ 8.0 8.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 5

↑ 10.0 10.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 8

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ 12.0 12.1 12.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ 14.0 14.1 14.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ 16.0 16.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 17

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ 19.0 19.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 21

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 23

↑ 22.0 22.1 22.2 22.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 25

↑ 24.0 24.1 24.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 26

↑ 25.0 25.1 25.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 27

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 29

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 30

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter Epilogue

↑ 29.0 29.1 29.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ 30.0 30.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 27

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 9

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 26

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 1

↑ Rachel Zegler on X: "i played her as a gemini sorry everyone"

↑ Rachel Zegler on X: "may 24"

↑ David Levithan and Suzanne Collins (May 19, 2020). Scholastic Releases New Interview with Suzanne Collins, Author of the Worldwide Bestselling Hunger Games Series. Scholastic. Retrieved on June 1, 2020.




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






