

Lucy Gray Baird's father

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Musician



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Mentioned
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes







Lucy Gray Baird: "Do you always feel free to speak your mind, Coriolanus Snow?"
Coriolanus Snow: "I do. I think you should say what you think."
Lucy Gray: "That's what my daddy thought, too. And he ended up with more bulletholes than I could count on my fingers."
—Coriolanus and Lucy Gray discussing her father[src]
Lucy Gray Baird's father was the father of Lucy Gray Baird and two other unnamed children: the first Baird child and the second Baird child.[1]


	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the occupation of Lucy Gray Baird's father?
						
				
				
					
						The father of Lucy Gray Baird, often referred to as 'daddy gray', was a musician by profession. He belonged to the Covey, a nomadic group, and had three children.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who are the siblings of Lucy Gray Baird's father?
						
				
				
					
						The siblings of Lucy Gray Baird's father include the first Baird child and the second Baird child. These two, along with Lucy Gray Baird, were fathered by the musician who was a member of the nomadic group, the Covey.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of the Covey in Lucy Gray Baird's father's life?
						
				
				
					
						As a member of the Covey, a group of traveling musicians, Lucy Gray Baird's father lived a nomadic life in Panem. He had three children, including Lucy Gray. Tragically, he was killed resisting capture by Peacekeepers a few years before The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. Following his death, an elderly man took in the remaining six Covey children, which included Lucy Gray.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How many children did Lucy Gray Baird's father have?
						
				
				
					
						'Daddy Gray', the father of Lucy Gray Baird, fathered three children. These were Lucy Gray Baird and two other Baird children, whose names are not mentioned in the source.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who are Lucy Gray Baird's cousins from her father's side?
						
				
				
					
						Lucy Gray Baird's paternal cousins are Barb Azure and Maude Ivory. They, along with Lucy Gray and other Covey children, were cared for by an elderly man following the demise of Lucy Gray's immediate family.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
This man was a member of the Covey, a group of nomadic people not tied to any one place.[2] At some point, he fathered two unnamed children, and three years before the start of the Dark Days, he fathered his youngest, Lucy Gray.[1]
He likely had at least two brothers who fathered Lucy Gray's cousins, Maude Ivory[3] and Barb Azure, since they also carried on the Baird name.[4]

Death[]
A few years prior to the events of The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, he, his family, and a number of other Covey were rounded up by Peacekeepers. He was fatally shot for trying to speak out[5] and fight against being rounded up. According to Lucy Gray, the mother of his children "[got her] head broken" by Peacekeepers for trying to keep the family together.[6] Their two oldest children died as well, leaving Lucy Gray the only surviving member of her immediate family.[1]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 26

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 27







