

Commander Lyme


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Middle-aged



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor
Career Tribute
 Commander of District 2



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 2



	
		Weapon
	
	Shotgun
Bombs



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female



	
		Height
	
	Over 6 feet[1]
6'3" (film)





	
		Eye Color
	
	Blue


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Gwendoline Christie







"You've been long underground Madam Coin. This isn't like the rest of Panem. Support for the Capitol runs deep here."
—Lyme on Coin's proposal to use Katniss to evoke support in District 2[src]
Lyme was a victor of an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games from District 2 and a commander in the Second Rebellion against the Capitol.[1]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Second Rebellion

1.1.1 Death




2 Physical description
3 Personality
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What Hunger Games did Lyme win?
						
				
				
					
						Lyme, a character from the Hunger Games, won an unspecified edition of the competition over a generation ago, roughly concurrent with Haymitch Abernathy's victory. Originating from District 2, she possibly volunteered and pursued a Career. Post-victory, she maintained a low profile, occasionally surfacing in Hunger Games broadcasts, possibly in a mentor's role. Lyme's transition to a commander role signifies her resistance against the Capitol.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What role did Lyme play in the Second Rebellion in District 2?
						
				
				
					
						In the Second Rebellion in District 2, Lyme, a former Hunger Games victor, served as a Commander. She collaborated with rebels and District 13 military forces to seize control of District 2 from Capitol loyalists. Despite deep-rooted support for the Capitol, Lyme and her rebel forces succeeded in taking over the outer villages, although the town center and the Nut remained under loyalist control.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How does Lyme's support for the Capitol affect her actions?
						
				
				
					
						Lyme, a Hunger Games victor, becomes a Commander in the Second Rebellion against the Capitol, indicating her deep opposition despite her District 2 origin. She participates in strategizing and leading attacks, enduring significant losses at times. Her frankness is evident when she criticizes the use of Katniss as a tool to weaken Capitol support.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the relationship between Lyme and Katniss?
						
				
				
					
						Lyme, a former Hunger Games victor, maintained a discreet presence, causing Katniss to question if she had been subjected to the Capitol's abuse. During the Second Rebellion, Lyme was stationed in District 2, collaborating with the rebels. Despite her origins in District 2, she was covertly opposed to the Capitol, and was among the rare victors to ascend to the rank of commander. Lyme was candid, expressing that Katniss' attempts to undermine support were unsuccessful.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who played the character of Lyme in the Hunger Games film series?
						
				
				
					
						British actress Gwendoline Christie portrayed the character Lyme in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2. Christie is also well-known for her work on HBO TV series.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Lyme was a past victor of an unspecified Hunger Games "over a generation ago", meaning she most likely won the Hunger Games around the same time Haymitch Abernathy did.[1] Due to the fact she came from District 2, she may have been a volunteer and a Career.[2] Katniss Everdeen mentioned that Lyme was memorable enough,[1] implying she may have been a popular victor.
Katniss also remembered seeing glimpses of her over the years in previous Hunger Games broadcasts, but that she kept a low profile. Because of this, Katniss wondered whether Lyme was a victim of sex trafficking or other mistreatment by the Capitol, since she had recently learned about the harm done to Finnick Odair and the deaths of Haymitch Abernathy's family.[1]

Second Rebellion[]
Lyme was presumably in District 2 for the majority of the Second Rebellion working with the rebels to capture the district. At an unknown point before Lyme and the rebels forces met to discuss their invasion of the Nut and were given reinforcements, she commanded and oversaw a failed attempt of attack that led to heavy losses and casualties on the North Eastern Gate.[1] There, the Capitol attacked from up above, causing Lyme's forces to retreat.
Lyme was present at the meeting among rebel commanders and militants including Commander Paylor, Alma Coin, Boggs, Beetee, Katniss and Gale. There, they discussed and diverged plans of the invasion of the Nut to capture Capitol forces and arsenals. Coin proposes that they can use Katniss to erode support, which was rejected by Lyme, citing that the support for the Capitol runs deeply within the District and thus the presence of Katniss is ineffective, although she was later proven wrong. The idea of a mass genocide of the Nut was also rejected by Commander Paylor. When Gale proposed that the rebels can disable the Nut rather than take over, Lyme asked him to elaborate[1]. After Gale's proposal is approved, she shows discontent and anger toward Gale after he proposes that all workers should be killed in the attack[3]. Afterwards, she presumably went on to command her forces to attack the Nut alongside other rebel forces with other Districts.
After they carry out Beetee and Gale's combined plans, rebel forces succeeded to make the Nut collapse over itself through avalanches to block the exits and forced the workers out through the train station[3]. After the capture of the nut, and the decisive winning victory for the rebels weakening Capitol forces greatly, Lyme presumably stayed in District 2.

Death[]
Lyme was not present at the post-war meeting of the surviving victors to vote on the holding of a 76th Hunger Games, it is assumed she had been killed sometime before then.[4] It is unknown exactly when and how Lyme died, but it would have happened after the success of the invasion of the Nut.

Physical description[]
Katniss said that Lyme was middle-aged, over 6 feet tall, and very muscular. Her face was described as unforgettable, as it made Katniss remember her from a past Hunger Games. Katniss also mentioned that she could easily have the upper hand in hitting Gale from all her training, suggesting she is very powerful.[1]

Personality[]

"They should at least be given a chance to surrender"
—Lyme proposes that the District 2 workers could rather be left alive after the collapse of the Nut
Lyme kept a low profile after the victory of her Hunger Games, as Katniss only remembered seeing glimpses of her during previous Hunger Games broadcasts most likely as a mentor[1]. She was also one of the only victors to become a commander, showing that despite coming from District 2, she was secretly always against the Capitol.
However, Lyme is very upfront and honest, stating that Katniss' presence to erode support was ineffective and stated that Coin was too long underground and therefore ignorant of District 2. Despite her incredible strength, she shows sympathy, believing that her fellow District 2 workers should have a chance to surrender after the collapse of the Nut. When Gale pushed toward simply killing all workers, Katniss noted that Lyme showed extreme anger on her face, so much so that Katniss believed that she was going to shoot or take a swing at Gale.[3] She felt defensive of District 2, stating that she believed the rebels didn't know what her forces were up against, and had showed apparent struggle when revealing that her forces took heavy casualties from a failed invasion. She also showed frustration when plans to storm the entrances was proposed, due to the many soldiers she lost from similar failed attempts.[1]

Etymology[]
"Lyme" is derived from lime, an inorganic material and product of limestone. Lime is a component in lime mortar, used in masonry.

Trivia[]
Effie Trinket sent Katniss and Peeta Mellark the tape of Lyme's Games to prepare for the 75th Hunger Games.[5][1]
Lyme may be her surname, due to the nature of her Commander title.
Lily Rabe was originally set to play Lyme in Mockingjay - Part 2, but a scheduling conflict forced her to withdraw.[6]
References[]


↑ 1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 Mockingjay, Chapter 14

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 7

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 15

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 26

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ https://playbill.com/article/lily-rabe-withdraws-from-hunger-games-mockingjaypart-2-due-to-shakespeare-in-the-park-com-216932





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





