

Lysistrata Vickers


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Also known as
	
	Lyssie (by Coriolanus Snow)



	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Weapon
	
	Water




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Zoe Renee







"I couldn't sleep last night, thinking about sitting through this. I know it's to punish the districts, but haven't we punished them enough? How long do we have to keep dragging the war out?"
—Lysistrata lamenting to Coriolanus Snow.[src]
Lysistrata Vickers, also known as Lyssie, was a female resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. 
She was assigned the male tribute from District 12, Jessup Diggs.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 10th Hunger Games
1.2 Film adaptation


2 Personality and traits
3 Physical description
4 Etymology
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Lysistrata Vickers play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Lysistrata Vickers, known as Lyssie, served as a mentor. She was an outstanding senior at the Capitol Academy. She mentored Jessup Diggs, a District 12 tribute, and believed that the Games' victor would emerge from District 12, due to the alliance between Jessup and Lucy Gray Baird.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Lysistrata Vickers' assigned tribute in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Lysistrata Vickers, often referred to as Lyssie, served as the mentor to Jessup Diggs, a male tribute from District 12. Prior to the Games, Jessup worked in the mines. He formed an alliance with Lucy Gray Baird during the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Lysistrata Vickers react during the seminar led by Professor Crispus Demigloss?
						
				
				
					
						Lysistrata Vickers demonstrated indifference and discontent during Professor Crispus Demigloss's seminar. She voiced her opposition to warfare and was surprised by an assignment to write about war's merits. She also countered Livia Cardew's argument about broadcasting children in combat, asserting that no decent person would watch such games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Her parents were physicians for President Ravinstill throughout much of the Dark Days.[1]
When the mentors were requested to gather to a seminar led by Professor Crispus Demigloss, she presumably kept mostly silent as the class discussed ideas to increase the viewership of the games. However, as Sejanus Plinth and Livia Cardew argued over the very idea of broadcasting children killing one another, Lysistrata rebuked Livia's argument that Sejanus didn't know who would watch the games by claiming that any decent person simply wouldn't want to watch people suffer.[2]
Lysistrata was one of the few mentors to develop a favourable relationship with their tributes, as in the van during the ride to the Arena, Lysistrata gave Jessup some cream for his neck, and presumably placed it in his pocket when no one was looking.[1] After the Capitol Arena was bombed, Lysistrata luckily managed to survive supposedly only with minor injuries, as after the bombing she talked to a reporter to make a quick statement that her tribute, Jessup, threw his own body over hers to protect her.[3]
A few days after the bombing, the remaining mentors were called into a class led by Dr. Volumnia Gaul, where she discussed warfare between the districts and the Capitol. Throughout the class, Lysistrata showed discontent and indifference toward the discussions, as stated that she would neither by a loser or victor in a war, implying that she was against the idea of warfare altogether. She also frowned when Dr. Gaul assigned all the mentors to write an essay on what they loved about war, supposedly taken aback by the idea of the assignment.[4]
For the interviews, Jessup lifted Lysistrata over his head to display his immense strength.[4] Lysistrata also whispered to Coriolanus to confess that she felt rather attached to Jessup after he saved her life while arranging the wrapper for baked noodles and cheese, presumably to give to Jessup.[5] She later attempted to tie Jessup and Lucy Gray Baird together to look as a pair to win more sympathy. However, when Lucy completed her interviews without even a mention of Jessup, Lysistrata was annoyed. She was convinced that Jessup and Lucy Gray were devoted to one another and with Jessup's strength and Lucy Gray's charm, she felt strongly that the victor that year would come from District 12.[6]

10th Hunger Games[]
As the Games were about to begin, Lysistrata yelled at Coriolanus for not playing by the team angle for the District 12 tributes, as Jessup kept calling Lucy his ally. However afterwards as they settled down, Lysistrata confessed that she was angry only due to her frustration for the Games, having lost sleep over it the night before. She also revealed that she believed that the celebration of the Games was revolting. Lysistrata expressed that she didn't like being used like this and would rather have the Games over quickly. She also tried to defend Coriolanus when Clemensia Dovecote accused him, later wondering what was wrong with her.[6]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Lysistrata realizes Jessup has rabies 		 	 
Her tribute, Jessup, was bitten by a raccoon before the Games even began[7] and contracted rabies. He began exhibiting signs of it during the Games themselves. Upon seeing this, both Lysistrata and Coriolanus Snow remembered hydrophobia, or a fear of water, as being one of the symptoms of rabies. Coriolanus readied himself to send in large amounts of water to keep Jessup from killing his own tribute, Lucy Gray, in a crazed fit. Lysistrata, however, stopped him and spent the money to send in the water herself, as she realized that her own tribute no longer had any chance of winning and wanted to leave a chance that if her tribute didn't win, the other tribute from District 12 would. Bombarded by drones delivering water, Jessup fled in a panic and tripped over the seats of the Capitol Arena, falling and breaking his bones. Lucy Gray then told him to go to sleep and he passed away, her standing guard over him. 
When Lepidus Malmsey interviewed her, Lysistrata told them that Jessup had contracted rabies in the Capitol, and that he was a good person. Afterwards, Lysistrata began collecting her things. Although Coriolanus urged her to stay for dinner with the other mentors, she told him that she just wanted to go home, saying that he was a good ally while tearfully wiping her eyes.[8]
When Coriolanus was sent to District 12 as a Peacekeeper, Lysistrata came by the Snow penthouse, concerned.[9] Coriolanus considered Lysistrata, along with Festus Creed, to be someone who liked Sejanus Plinth more than most of his other classmates. He therefore invited her and Festus to a party to celebrate what would have been Plinth's 19th birthday.[10]

Film adaptation[]
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, her tribute Jessup was bitten by a rabid bat on the train to the Capitol. Jessup did not rescue her during the bombing, and when he turned on Lucy Gray amid the Games, it was Coriolanus's idea for her to send water to frighten him. Lysistrata was initially against this, and Coriolanus had to convince her to do it.[11]

Personality and traits[]
Coriolanus Snow thought of Lysistrata as a self-contained, efficient person who never drew attention to herself, a quality that he respected and admired in her.[3] She was also one of the few mentors alongside Sejanus who showed some form of dissent at the concept of the Hunger Games itself, showing that she was supposedly secretly against the idea.[2] She was very caring, as she called the hospital to check on Clemensia to no avail[6] and attempted to visit Coriolanus while he was discharged as a Peacekeeper in District 12.[9] Despite her delicacy, Coriolanus believed her to have some grit.[1]

Physical description[]

"Everything about her was neat. From her carefully braided hair to her evenly filed nails to the crisp, white cuffs of her uniform blouse setting off her smooth, brown skin."
—Description of Lysistrata’s neatness[src]
Lysistrata had carefully braided hair and evenly filed nails, contributing to her generally neat appearance. She also had smooth, brown skin.[2] Lysistrata was described to have a delicate appearance and couldn't tip the scale at a hundred pounds.[1]

Etymology[]
Lysistrata is the name of an Ancient Greek play written by Aristophanes. Set during the Peloponnesian War, it follows a woman who attempts to end the fighting by persuading the woman of the warring cities to withhold sexual privileges from their husbands and lovers.

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 9

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 8

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 17

↑ 9.0 9.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 21

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





