

Mags Flanagan

	
		
			
				
					
						
							75th HG
							
						
					
				
					
						
							11th HG
							
						
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
						
						
					
				
			
		
			
				
					
						
						
					
				
			
		
	



	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	16 (11th Hunger Games)
55 (50th Hunger Games)
 80 (75th Hunger Games)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor (11th Hunger Games)
Mentor
Tribute (75th Hunger Games)[1]



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 4



	
		Relatives
	
	Finnick Odair (adoptive family) (deceased)



	
		Weapon
	
	Fishhook
Awl



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female





	
		Eye Color
	
	Brown (film)



	
		Hair
	
	Grey (elderly, book and film)Bronze (younger, film)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire
Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire
Capitol Couture promo for Mockingjay - Part 2 (young)
The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping (upcoming)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Lynn Cohen (CF)Lili Taylor (SOTR)Grace Kull (Capitol Couture)







"It was obvious she didn't volunteer because she thought she could win, she did it to save Annie Cresta."
—Katniss talking about Mags volunteering[src]
Mags Flanagan was the female tribute from District 4 during the 75th Hunger Games, for which she volunteered in place of Annie Cresta.[1] She was also the victor of the 11th Hunger Games[2] and the mentor of Haymitch Abernathy during the 50th Hunger Games[3] and Finnick Odair during the 65th Hunger Games.[4]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 11th Hunger Games
1.2 Between the Games
1.3 Second Quarter Quell
1.4 65th Hunger Games
1.5 75th Hunger Games

1.5.1 Interview
1.5.2 Death




2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Skills
5 Etymology
6 Trivia
7 Gallery

7.1 Catching Fire: Illustrated Edition
7.2 Movies


8 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What skills did Mags Flanagan use to win the 11th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Mags Flanagan's victory in the 11th Hunger Games at 16 years old was due to her adeptness with fish hooks and other survival skills, which she likely developed from her upbringing in District 4.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who did Mags Flanagan volunteer for in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games, Mags Flanagan volunteered to take the place of Annie Cresta. She was the female representative from District 4 and had previously won the 11th Hunger Games. Her decision to volunteer was driven by her desire to protect Annie Cresta, not by a belief in her own victory.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Mags Flanagan's mentee in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Mags Flanagan, a victor of the 11th Hunger Games, mentored Finnick Odair. She also volunteered to participate in the 75th Hunger Games, replacing Annie Cresta, suggesting she had a role in Annie's training for the games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Mags Flanagan's district in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Mags Flanagan hailed from District 4. She emerged victorious in the 11th Hunger Games and later volunteered as a tribute for the 75th Hunger Games, substituting for Annie Cresta.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the significance of Mags Flanagan's Victory Tour in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Mags Flanagan, victor of the 11th Hunger Games, was the first to undertake a Victory Tour, marking a significant milestone in the Hunger Games history. Her victory also introduced new rewards including a monetary prize, a house in the Victors' Village, and district-wide food parcels. Post-victory, Mags mentored numerous District 4 tributes, potentially initiating the district's Career Tributes training program.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
11th Hunger Games[]
At the age of 16, Mags was reaped for the 11th Hunger Games, which she won.[2] During the Games, Mags' main desire was to protect her district partner.[5] Her skill with fish hooks and other natural skills she likely acquired from living in District 4 probably played a role in her victory. She was the first victor to embark on a Victory Tour,[2] as the victors before her were simply transported home after their victories.[6] She was also presumably the first victor to move to the Victors' Village directly after their Games, as well as the first to receive a token monetary prize for winning, as both ideas were first implemented in the 11th Hunger Games.[7]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			An advertisement for the 11th Victory Tour, the Hunger Games Mags won. 		 	 
Between the Games[]
As a victor, Mags went on to serve as a mentor for scores of District 4 tributes in the years that followed her victory. At first, she didn't ask the tributes what their goal was, because it seemed obvious that the goal was to survive. Later on, however, she started asking her tributes about their desires, reflecting on how she was unable to protect her district partner.[5] 
At some point after her Games, she got married as she was seen wearing a wedding ring on her left hand. It's unknown who her spouse is and whether or not she had children.

Second Quarter Quell[]
During the 50th Hunger Games, she was made to mentor the District 12 tributes with 49th Hunger Games victor Wiress (District 3) since there were no District 12 victors available. She met the tributes following the chariot rides and immediately hugged Haymitch Abernathy, knowing he had been deeply affected by Louella McCoy's death.[3] Once Haymitch began to calm down, she had him take a bath and ordered bean and ham hock soup to comfort him. The next day, Mags asked the tributes what their goal in the Games was, saying that hers had been to protect her district partner. She advised them to look for clues about the arena in the training stations.[5]
When Lou Lou was brought as a body double to replace Louella, Mags offered her stew. She immediately realized Lou Lou was from District 11 based on her reaction to the district bread, then put her to bed. She encouraged the tributes to continue the Newcomer alliance.[8]
Mags helped the tributes prepare for their interviews. When Drusilla Sickle agitated Lou Lou, Mags took her into the bedroom and took care of her ear when the implant caused it to bleed. She gave strawberry ice cream to Proserpina, Vitus, and the District 12 tributes.[9]
During the games, she would support Haymitch and Maysilee Donner by using their sponsorships to send them meaningful gifts; a pot of bean and ham hock soup to let them know they're not alone, breakfast spread, and black coffee and ice cream after Maysilee died as a reminder of her sass.[10]
Afterwards, she and Wiress were tortured for their role in the rebellion and information, leaving Mags wheelchair bound.[11]

65th Hunger Games[]
During the 65th Hunger Games, she served as mentor to Finnick Odair[4], who went on to become the youngest victor in the history of the Hunger Games at the age of 14[12]. It is possible she also mentored Annie Cresta or at the very least played a role in her training/preparation as a possible career tribute for the 70th Hunger Games. Annie, too, would go on to become victor of her respective Games, but at a great psychological cost due to the horrific nature of her district partner's death during the Games.

75th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Mags volunteering for Annie Cresta 		 	 
Mags, an eighty-year-old woman, volunteered for the 75th Hunger Games in the place of Annie Cresta, becoming a tribute alongside Finnick Odair,[1] whom she mentored in the 65th Hunger Games and (according to the book and film) practically raised[4]. She is reputed to be a lovely woman. She mumbled every time she spoke; Katniss believes it is because of a possible stroke she may have had in the past[13]. While in training for the third Quarter Quell, Katniss watched as Mags displayed her skill of being able to make fishhooks out of nearly anything. This skill, plus the fact that she volunteered to take Annie Cresta's place, made Katniss want Mags to be one of her allies in the arena[13]. Described to be in her eighties, Mags was the oldest tribute in the 75th Hunger Games, while Woof was the second oldest.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Mags meeting Katniss wearing her wedding ring during training. 		 	 
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Mags and Finnick. 		 	 
While competing in the Quarter Quell, Mags joined an alliance with Katniss and Peeta. She was carried by Finnick most of the time as she wasn't able to walk very fast[14]. Finnick and Mags are flung back when Peeta walks into the force field, due to the force in which Peeta is thrust back in.[15] When Katniss throws some nuts at the force field to determine where it is, Mags eats a mouthful of them. Katniss is alarmed as they don't know if the nuts are poisonous, but Finnick allows her to since he believes she knows what she's doing. She and Finnick begin to weave objects with big sharp blades of grass while Katniss hunts for water and food. When she returns, they have made a hut and bowls.[14] Mags is deeply saddened when the first day of the games is over and the faces of tributes who have died are shown at night, suggesting she was close to some of the bloodbath fatalities. When the spile is sent from the sponsors, she wonders what its use could be. Katniss asks if she can fish with it, but she could not, and is enlightened when they discover it gets water from trees. She and Peeta are not alarmed by the twelve bells rung during the night as they were asleep when the event occurred.[14]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Finnick carries Mags in the jungle. 		 	 
Interview[]
During the interviews in the film adaptation, she wore a sea blue dress which touched the floor. The top half of it was a lighter blue and had sparkles on it while the bottom half was a duller and darker blue, much like Finnick's. Mags joined hands with the other tributes after the final interview, displaying unity among the districts[16].

Death[]
Mags died on the second day of the Quarter Quell. When the acid fog was emitted, Finnick carried her while she was sleeping. When the fog damaged Peeta's legs and rendered him unable to walk, Katniss carried Mags as she was unable to help Peeta, but Katniss was also affected by the fog, and Finnick was unable to carry both Peeta and Mags. Realizing that they would be killed by the fog if they could not move faster, Mags kissed Finnick and courageously sacrificed herself by walking straight into the fog so Finnick, Katniss, and Peeta could live. Katniss described Mags as "falling to the ground in a horrible dance" when she was dying and Katniss honored Mags for her bravery. Finnick spent several hours of the night grieving for her. Finnick did not even talk about Mags' death for the whole night.[17]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Mags' portrait shown on the second night. 		 	 
When Johanna Mason states that Mags was half of Finnick's family because she was his mentor, Katniss feels great remorse[4]. Later, it is discovered that Mags was part of an even bigger alliance (including at least 12 tributes) that was set on keeping Peeta and Katniss alive[18].
In the film, Mags dies in much the same manner, although Finnick at first doesn't realize what she's doing and tries frantically to call her back, staring after her in grief as her cannon sounds[19]. She placed 15th.

Physical description[]
At eighty years old, Mags used a cane to walk[1] and had few teeth. She had a District 4 accent and a garbled speech that Katniss found difficult to understand, which might have been the result of a previous stroke.[13] Mags also had gray hair[15] and weighed less than seventy pounds.[17]

Personality and traits[]
Mags was noted by Haymitch to be a wonderful lady and showed herself to be kind, friendly, selfless, and very brave, as well as pragmatic. She volunteered to save Annie, clearly knowing she was not going to survive[1], and willingly walked to her death to allow Finnick, Katniss, and Peeta to escape the poison fog in the arena without being burdened by her, sacrificing herself without hesitation to protect them so that they would survive (and go on to help the rebellion)[17]. She was impossible to dislike.
She clearly loved Finnick and Annie, as it was noted she basically raised Finnick, having mentored him and likely Annie as well[4]. She made easy friends with Katniss, who admired the old woman for her bravery and selflessness[13].

Skills[]
Mags had the ability to make fishhooks out of anything[13], and weave baskets so well that they could float in water without any leaking in[15].

Etymology[]
Mags is derived from the Greek name "Margaret" which means "pearl". Much like other District 4 characters' namesakes relating to fishing and the sea.

Trivia[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Mags during the 75th Hunger Games. 		 	 
Mags is one of the four characters to appear in the main trilogy who have been alive before the Hunger Games started, being five years old when they began. The other characters are Coriolanus Snow, Tigris, and Clerk Carmine Clade.
Mags was so old when she volunteered that she "needed a cane to walk to the stage".[14] However, in the film, she wasn't seen with any mobility aids.[19]
A young Mags was portrayed by Grace Kull in promotional posters.[20]
Mags is one year younger than Lucy Gray Baird, the deuteragonist of The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. She won the Hunger Games the year after Lucy Gray, and both were sixteen years old at the time of their respective victories.
Mags is the oldest tribute to compete in the Hunger Games, with her being 80 during the 75th Hunger Games.
Mags is the last ever District 4 tribute to die in the Hunger Games.
Gallery[]
Catching Fire: Illustrated Edition[]
Sleeping during the 75th Hunger Games.
Movies[]
Mags' reaping clothesChariot costumeInterview dress
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 MAGS, THE 11TH VICTOR - Capitol Couture

↑ 3.0 3.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 22

↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 9

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 10

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 12

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapters 20-23

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ 13.0 13.1 13.2 13.3 13.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ 14.0 14.1 14.2 14.3 Catching Fire, Chapter 20

↑ 15.0 15.1 15.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 19

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ 17.0 17.1 17.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 21

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 27

↑ 19.0 19.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ https://twitter.com/nousmodels/status/668935007990210562





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2



Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White






