

Mahershala Ali


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Mahershalalhashbaz Gilmore



	
		Character
	
	Boggs



	
		Birthday
	
	 February 16, 1974



	
		Birthplace
	
	Oakland, California, U.S.A



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Years active
	
	2001–present



 
Mahershala Ali is an American actor who portrayed Boggs in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 and Part 2.

Career[]
His first TV appearance was as Dr. Trey Sanders on the television drama series Crossing Jordan. This was followed by shows such as NYPD Blue, Threat Matrix, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation and The Haunted. Subsequently, Ali landed the role of Richard Tyler, a Korean War pilot on the critically acclaimed drama The 4400 on USA Network for three seasons. Ali has guest starred on a number of shows including Lie To Me on FOX and Law and Order SVU.
Ali won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performances as a drug dealer in the drama Moonlight (2016) and as Don Shirley in the comedy-drama film Green Book (2018). He is the first Muslim actor to win an Oscar,[1] the first Black actor to win two Academy Awards in the same category, and the second Black actor to win multiple acting Oscars.[2] Ali won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Children's Program for executive producing We Are the Dream: The Kids of the Oakland MLK Oratorical Fest (2020).
In 2019, he played a troubled police officer in the third season of the HBO anthology crime series True Detective and in 2020, he starred in the second season of the Hulu comedy-drama series Ramy. He was nominated for Primetime Emmy Awards for both performances. Ali voiced Aaron Davis in the animated films Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (2018) and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse (2023), the former winning the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature.

External links[]
 Mahershala Ali at the Internet Movie Database
 Mahershala Ali on Wikipedia
References[]

↑ Mark Olsen (March 15, 2021). Riz Ahmed is the first Muslim nominated for lead actor Oscar. “Actor Mahershala Ali became the first Muslim actor to win an Oscar when he took home the statuette for supporting actor for 'Moonlight' in 2017 and won the same prize in 2019 for 'Green Book.'”

↑ Yglesias, Matthew (February 24, 2019). Oscars 2019 milestones: Black Panther and Roma broke boundaries. Vox.






