

Marcus


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	18[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 2



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (mercy kill by Lamina)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Jerome Lance







"It would have been horrifying to see any creature displayed this way - a dog, a monkey, a rat, even - but a boy? And a boy whose only real crime had been to run for his life?"
—Coriolanus Snow's disbelief at how the Capitol had tortured Marcus.[src]
Marcus was the male tribute from District 2 in the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Sejanus Plinth. During the Capitol Arena bombing, he managed to escape, but he faced major consequences after being caught.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death


2 Physical description
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Marcus play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Marcus, from District 2, was mentored by Sejanus Plinth. Despite his escape during the Capitol Arena bombing, he was recaptured and placed in the arena. Despite his physical prowess, he was the first casualty of these games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Marcus manage to escape the Capitol Arena bombing?
						
				
				
					
						In the chaos of the Capitol Arena bombing during the 10th Hunger Games, Marcus escaped by exploiting the large hole created by the explosions near the arena entrance. He, along with other District 1 and 2 tributes, fled the scene. It's presumed that Marcus used the underground to elude capture. Despite his initial escape, he was later apprehended and suffered grave repercussions.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Marcus's relationship with Sejanus Plinth?
						
				
				
					
						Marcus and Sejanus Plinth shared a bond from childhood, with Sejanus later mentoring Marcus in the Hunger Games. Despite occasional discord, Sejanus's concern for Marcus was evident when he risked entering the Capitol arena to mourn Marcus's death. This event was a turning point for Sejanus, triggering his revolt against the Capitol.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What were the consequences Marcus faced after being caught post-Capitol Arena bombing?
						
				
				
					
						Marcus faced severe consequences following the Capitol Arena bombing. Although he initially escaped, his eventual capture resulted in significant repercussions. His relationship with schoolmate Sejanus Plinth, who moved to the Capitol, also played a role in his situation.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Marcus contribute to the First Rebellion in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Marcus, a tribute from District 2, was the first to die. His death was pivotal as he had escaped the arena during a bombing but was recaptured and displayed in a brutal manner at the games' onset. This act incited rebellion, with his mentor, Sejanus Plinth, infiltrating the arena to hold a vigil over Marcus' body, protesting the games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
During the Dark Days, he was in the same class in school as Sejanus Plinth. One day, when Sejanus smashed his finger in a door, Marcus immediately scooped a cup of snow off the windowsill to help bring down the swelling. They weren't exactly friends nor enemies, but Sejanus's move to the Capitol made Marcus despise him.[2]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Marcus at the reaping. 		 	 
Marcus was reaped for the 10th Hunger Games, and Sejanus suspected this had been rigged by his father, Strabo Plinth. Marcus and the other tributes were taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car, then transferred into a truck, which dumped them all into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[3]
When Marcus saw Sejanus at the zoo, he was the only tribute that refused to accept food from Sejanus, remaining stone-faced despite his mentor pleading him to take a sandwich. Instead, he got ready for the night and easily broke apart two other tributes who had been fighting over a bale of hay, claiming it for himself.[2] Later, during the first official meeting the mentors had with their tributes, Sejanus put a meal of roast beef sandwiches and cake between them while he talked animatedly, but Marcus remained unresponsive.[4]
During a tour of the Capitol Arena, several explosions planted by the rebels were detonated. The bombs exploded a large hole near the entrance of the arena, and through the chaos, each tribute from District 1 and District 2 made a run for it. Facet, Velvereen and Sabyn were killed, but Marcus disappeared completely, presumably having climbed underground to the Transfer.[5]

Death[]
Marcus's fate was unknown until the Games begin to broadcast. He was strung up by steel poles in the air at the main entrance to the Arena and left to hang from his manacles, still alive and badly beaten. This left him prone for any tribute to kill him.[6] Because of this, Sejanus hurled a chair towards the screen in anger, then left the mentor section.[7]
Lamina, the female tribute from District 7, climbed up to where Marcus hung and spoke to him. After bracing herself, she mercy killed Marcus by driving an axe to his neck three times. His death took place about thirty minutes after the Games started, and was the first kill of the day.[7] In the film, he ranked in 13th.[8]
That night, Sejanus slipped into the arena and arrived at Marcus's corpse. After straightening his body, he sprinkled bread crumbs over it, as was tradition in District 2. Coriolanus Snow soon came to persuade Sejanus to return, and they both dragged Marcus's body toward the barricade.[9] However, they left his body after being attacked by other tributes, and it later became part of Reaper Ash's makeshift morgue in the arena.[10]

Physical description[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Marcus' face on the monitors. 		 	 
Marcus towered above the other tributes[11] and had a lot of physical strength, which was shown when he easily tossed two other tributes several yards in the air. However, when Sejanus Plinth spoke to him, he remained stone-faced and unresponsive.[2]
When he was taken to the arena at the beginning of the 10th Hunger Games, Marcus hung from the steel poles near the entrance, his wrists chained and his body battered and bloody.[6]

Trivia[]
Marcus was the only tribute to successfully escape the arena from the bombing, and the only tribute to be left in the open when the Games began.
He was technically the first death in the Games.
He was similar to Cato in that they were both male tributes from District 2 who were mercy killed by a female tribute. While Cato was the last death in the 74th Hunger Games, Marcus was the first to die in the actual period of the 10th Hunger Games. Although in the movie adaption, six tributes were killed in the bloodbath before Marcus was killed.
Gallery[]
Marcus, Coral, Panlo, Reaper, and Dill in the Capitol Zoo.Concepts for Sabyn and Marcus' costumes.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 25

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 5

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ 6.0 6.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ 7.0 7.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 15

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





