

Maritte

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (50th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 4



	
		Weapon
	
	Trident



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female





	
		Eye Color
	
	Green (film)



	
		Hair
	
	Brown (film)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping (upcoming)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Sky Frances[1]





Maritte was a Career Tribute from District 4 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games. She was a part of the Career alliance, and she placed 5th out of 48 tributes.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 50th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Death




2 Etymology
3 Physical description
4 Trivia
5 References



Biography[]
50th Hunger Games[]
In the build-up to the 50th Hunger Games, Maritte received a score of eleven after her private session with the Gamemakers.[2] She was part of the Career pack in these Games. She retrieved a trident from the Cornucopia, something she was often featured with pre-games, and wielded it during the initial bloodbath.[3]

Death[]
Maritte and Silka Sharp teamed up during the final stages of the Games. They were chasing Haymitch Abernathy and Maysilee Donner when they discovered three Gamemakers repairing a mutt portral inside the arena. Maritte was the first to react and killed a Gamemaker with her trident. She and Maysilee then dispatched of the other two. Silka was horrified that Maritte killed Gamemakers, as she did not believe they'd ever let them win now. Maysilee scoffed at the thought of winning, asking if Silka was really still chasing that dream, and remarked to Maritte that District 4 should be on Newcomers' side. Maritte briefly considered an offer to join Haymitch and Maysilee, but ultimately decided to leave.[4]
In punishment for killing Gamemakers, Maritte was chased down and killed by a pack of golden squirrel muttations similar to the ones that killed Ampert Latier.[5][6]
After the Games, heavily edited recap footage of the 50th Hunger Games was shown. The killing of the Gamemakers was omitted and her death was edited to show Maritte being killed after Maysilee and when Silka Sharp killed Wellie, even though she was already long dead at that point.[6]

Etymology[]
Likely a diminution of "maritime," an adjective for something marine. It may also be a variant of Marita, a Scandinavian form of "Margaret."[7] Margaret means "pearl,"[8] which connects with District 4's aquatic industry.

Physical description[]
Maritte, along with the other three tributes from District 4, wore a "shimmering deep sea–blue mermaid suit" during the chariot rides.[9] Their training outfits were deep-sea blue.[10] Additionally, Maysilee had commented on Maritte saying she couldn't pull off pin curls, implying that Maritte had pin curls as her hairstyle. Based on her physique, she was considered a contender.[2]

Trivia[]
Wyatt Callow practiced evaluating Maritte's odds with Drusilla Sickle.[2] According to Wyatt:
Maritte pulled a score of 11 with the Gamemakers.
She had odds of six-to-one.
She had a 14.29% chance of winning the Games.
Maritte technically finished fifth in the Hunger Games, but as her death was publicly altered to show her dying after Wellie and Maysilee, then it would have looked like she finished third.
References[]


↑ Post by the official Hunger Games account (July 15, 2025).

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 12

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 17

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 22

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 23

↑ 6.0 6.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ Meaning, origin and history of the name Marita (2) - Behind the Name

↑ Meaning, origin and history of the name Margaret - Behind the Name

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 5

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 8




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White





