

Marian Green


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Marian Green



	
		Character
	
	District 9 female



	
		Birthday
	
	June 5, 1959



	
		Birthplace
	
	California, U.S.A.



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Years active
	
	1980–present



Marian Green is a stuntwoman who portrayed the District 9 female tribute in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, as well as stunt doubling for Sandra Ellis Bufferty as Greasy Sae and Amanda Plummer as Wiress. Marian is an accomplished stuntwoman, stunt coordinator, and actress, appearing in renowned films such as The Terminator, Reservoir Dogs, Air Force One, and Pearl Harbor, and in numerous television shows, including Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Magnum, P.I., Knight Rider, and 24.[1]

Contents

1 Background
2 Film career
3 External links
4 References



Background[]
Green was born in Santa Cruz, California and grew up on a farm in Felton, a small town in northern California[1], the youngest of four children. She excelled in sports in high school and competed in swimming, cross country, and basketball.[2] She went on to attend UCLA on a chemistry scholarship, where she was a member of UCLA's first women's soccer team and during which time she learned many of the skills necessary to becoming a successful stuntwoman, including gymnastics, martial arts, and SCUBA.[2] She attended Kahana's Stunt School[2] after deciding she no longer wanted to become a physical therapist.[3]

Film career[]
Green was a fan of the Burt Reynolds film Hooper, which was how she became interested in stunt work. One of her first jobs was as an extra on the film Return of the Rebels, starring Patrick Swayze. She was accidentally clipped in the middle of a stunt by a motorcycle and sent flying. When the shot made it into the final cut of the film, it made Green eligible to join the Screen Actors Guild.[3]
Word of mouth soon spread and Green subsequently worked on some of the biggest films and television shows of the 1980s, including The Terminator, Knight Rider, Cagney and Lacey, Magnum, P.I., and Pee-wee's Big Adventure.[1]
The 1990s proved just as busy, with Marian appearing in Reservoir Dogs, Basic Instinct, Batman Returns, Diagnosis Murder, Seinfeld, Batman & Robin, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and Air Force One.[1]
Green ventured into producing with her husband Michael Hofstein and helped to found EuroPacific Films along with Stephane Guenin. The production company films primarily in France and in the United States, and their films include Killing Uncle Roman, and The Assignment 1.0. [4]
Since appearing in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, Green's stunt career has become very busy and she has been working on television series and films including Homeland, Solace, Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues, and Under the Dome. Green is once again being noticed by Hollywood, and she is receiving the Helen Gibson Award at the 2013 Action Icon Awards, named for the legendary first American stuntwoman.[5]

External links[]
 Marian Green at the Internet Movie Database
 Marian Green on X
Marian Green on Facebook
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Marian Green's bio on IMDb

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Marian Green's bio on United Stuntwomen's Association

↑ 3.0 3.1 Body language. Connect Savannah.

↑ EuroPacific Films Official Site

↑ The 6th Annual Diamond in the Raw Action Icon Awards






