

Mayfair Lipp


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Mayor Lipp (father)Mrs. Lipp (mother)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Isobel Jesper Jones







"That's me. All talk, no action. Right, Lucy Gray? How'd you enjoy the Capitol, by the way?"
—Mayfair's last words, taunting her rival, Lucy Gray Baird[src]
Mayfair Lipp was the daughter of Mayor Lipp, the mayor of District 12 at the time of the 10th Hunger Games, and the girlfriend of Billy Taupe Clade.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Relationships

3.1 Billy Taupe
3.2 Family


4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Why did Snow kill Mayfair Lipp in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Snow eliminated Mayfair Lipp to safeguard himself from potential repercussions. Mayfair had unintentionally eavesdropped on a conversation that could have implicated Snow in serious infractions. To prevent her from reporting what she had overheard, Snow decided to remove her from the equation. This event took place in a woodland shack, where Snow found the rifle he had used to execute Mayfair.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What were the circumstances surrounding Mayfair Lipp's death?
						
				
				
					
						Mayfair Lipp's death was a result of murder, and it stirred controversy. Her father, Mayor Lipp, was held responsible due to his lenient parenting style, which allegedly led her into perilous company. Following her death, Mayor Lipp accused Lucy Gray of the murder at the Peacekeeper base, but his claims were dismissed.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Mayfair Lipp's relationship with her father, Mayor Lipp, influence the story?
						
				
				
					
						The story is significantly influenced by Mayfair Lipp's relationship with her father, Mayor Lipp. His permissive parenting allowed Mayfair to mingle with a dangerous crowd, leading to her murder. Additionally, Mayor Lipp's personal feud resulted in him intentionally selecting Lucy Gray Baird as tribute in the 10th Hunger Games, impacting the narrative's course.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the impact of Mayfair Lipp's relationship with Billy Taupe Clade on the plot?
						
				
				
					
						Billy Taupe Clade's bet involving Lucy Gray Baird and Mayfair Lipp caused a rift in their relationships. Mayfair, angered by Billy's actions, persuaded her father, Mayor Lipp, to select Lucy Gray for the 10th Hunger Games. Mayfair's discovery of a plot involving Billy and others led to her death at the hands of Snow, significantly influencing the storyline.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Mayfair Lipp react when she discovered Billy Taupe Clade's betrayal?
						
				
				
					
						Mayfair Lipp, the Mayor's daughter, reacted with fury to Billy Taupe Clade's betrayal. She remained with Billy but took action by persuading her father to reap Lucy Gray. During the announcement, Lucy Gray retaliated by dropping a snake down Mayfair's collar. Mayfair later discovered a plot involving Billy and others, intending to disclose it to her father. However, Snow killed her before she could reveal the plot.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Before the reaping for the 10th annual Hunger Games, Billy Taupe Clade made a bet that he could have both Lucy Gray Baird and Mayfair Lipp. However, the girls found this out. Lucy Gray broke up with Billy Taupe, while Mayfair stayed with him but was furious that he had been dating Lucy Gray behind her back. She then convinced her father to reap Lucy Gray.[2]
When her name was announced, the camera zoomed in on Lucy Gray. She began to navigate through the girls, and when she neared Mayfair, Lucy Gray dropped a snake down her collar. Mayfair fell to the ground, horrified and shrieking, while others whispered to each other. Mayor Lipp flew down the steps to his daughter, and Mayfair tried to smarten herself up, but it was clear that she had wet herself. Mayfair was then led away by a Peacekeeper, and her father retaliated against Lucy Gray by slapping her across on the face.[1]
Mayfair was at the hanging tree for the execution of Arlo Chance, standing alongside her father and mother.[3]
After the lights went out following one of the Covey's performances in the Hob, Mayfair attempted to leave but was flanked by Peacekeepers. She was frustrated, but allowed herself to be escorted home by them, as otherwise her father would have to be called. Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth, students of the Academy, found themselves recruited for the job along with a few others, and as they neared her house, Mayfair slipped past them and entered herself.[4]
Mayfair later stumbled upon a secretive rebel meeting where Billy Taupe, Sejanus, and Spruce were plotting to travel up north to escape the Capitol's influence, which Snow has also stumbled upon. Billy Taupe ordered her to go home, but Spruce tried to get her to come with them, although she made it clear that she was going to leave and reveal what was happening to her father. At this, Spruce lifted his shotgun to shoot her, but Billy Taupe blocked him. Snow then shot and killed Mayfair instead, as he would also suffer the consequences if she had reported what she'd heard.[5]

Physical description[]
Mayfair Lipp had red hair and often, a self-righteous smirk. Her garments were filthy with coal dust, which coated everything in District 12.[1]
While in the shed, Coriolanus Snow recognized Mayfair's voice from its nastiness and mocking tone.[5]

Relationships[]
Billy Taupe[]
According to Lucy Gray, Mayfair did not have any siblings or friends, and the coal miners hated her family for their money, power, and privilege (and likely Mayfair's own attitude did not help dissuade their hostility). She believed that this made Mayfair feel lonely, which allowed Billy Taupe to charm her easily.[2]

Family[]

"... since he’d spoiled Mayfair rotten and let her run loose like a wildcat, the feeling was he had no one to blame but himself if she had been keeping time with a rebel."
—The Peacekeeper response to Mayfair's death[src]
Mayor Lipp had a permissive attitude towards Mayfair. Yet, he was willing to do anything to give Mayfair what she wanted and make her happy, as shown when he reaped her rival, Lucy Gray Baird so she have Billy Taupe all to herself. After her murder, the opinion among Peacekeepers seemed to be that he had spoiled his daughter, so it was his fault as a parent that she had gotten in with a dangerous crowd.[5] Nothing is known of her relationship with her mother, save that she had one.[3]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 27

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28







