

Mayor Undersee

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Middle-aged



	
		Occupation
	
	Mayor



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Merrilee Undersee † (wife)
Madge Undersee † (daughter)
Maysilee Donner † (sister-in-law)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games, Catching Fire



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Mockingjay





Mayor Undersee was the mayor of District 12.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death


2 Family
3 Physical description
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What were Mayor Undersee's main contributions to District 12?
						
				
				
					
						As the mayor of District 12, Mayor Undersee worked diligently to enhance the living conditions in the district, which faced many challenges. He was privy to exclusive information, including updates on happenings in other districts. His role also involved overseeing the industrial quotas dispatched to the Capitol.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Mayor Undersee's approach towards law enforcement in District 12?
						
				
				
					
						Mayor Undersee, the mayor of District 12, was known for his lenient approach to law enforcement. His administration was marked by a rarity of public executions and whippings. The Peacekeepers, under the joint leadership of Mayor Undersee and Head Peacekeeper Cray, were notably more lenient in District 12, with many of the Capitol's stringent laws remaining unenforced.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What were some of the problems Mayor Undersee faced in District 12?
						
				
				
					
						Mayor Undersee, the mayor of District 12, grappled with improving the district's living conditions, which were fraught with issues. His lenient approach to law enforcement meant public punishments were rare, but law enforcement severity remained a problem. He also faced the challenge of limited representation in national politics, with the president holding most governing power.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
A fairly just mayor, Mayor Undersee attempted to improve the living conditions in District 12, a district that had many problems and affairs. He opened each the reaping with his usual speech along with the district's escort, Effie Trinket.[1] When Katniss Everdeen volunteered in place of her sister, Prim, for the 74th Hunger Games, the mayor told Effie to let her come forward.[2]
His attitude towards law enforcement was relatively lenient; public executions and whippings rarely occurred under his administration.[3] However, it was apparent that the severity of law enforcement was also linked to whoever was in charge of the local Peacekeeping garrison; with the arrival of Romulus Thread, laws were much more strictly enforced.[4]
Undersee regularly bought strawberries from Katniss Everdeen and Gale Hawthorne, even though their gathering of the fruit was technically illegal.[1] As the mayor, he had access to information unavailable to most of Panem's residents, such as updates on the events in other districts, including the Uprising of District 8.[5] Katniss accidentally saw the news while preparing for the dinner hosted at his house, leaving the study shortly before Mayor Undersee appeared.[6]

Death[]
The mayor and his family died in the bombing of District 12 following the unexpected end of the 75th Hunger Games. The Capitol chose not to save Mayor Undersee, considering him of minimal importance.[7]

Family[]
Mayor Undersee lived with his wife and daughter, Madge Undersee.[5] Maysilee Donner, a tribute from District 12 who died in the Second Quarter Quell, was his wife's twin and his sister-in-law.[8]

Physical description[]
Mayor Undersee was a tall, balding man.[1]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 The Hunger Games, Chapter 1

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 2

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 15

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 8

↑ 5.0 5.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 6

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 7

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 27

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 14






