

Mayor Lipp


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Mayor of District 12



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Mayfair Lipp (daughter)Mrs. Lipp (wife)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Marc Aden Gray







"Mayor Lipp, a squat, freckled man in a hopelessly outdated suit, stood between two burlap sacks. He dug his hand deeply in the bag on the left, pulled out a slip of paper, and barely glanced at it."
—Mayor Lipp during the reaping of the 10th Hunger Games[src]
Mayor Lipp was the mayor of District 12 at the time of the 10th Hunger Games.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Family
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Mayor Lipp play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Mayor Lipp of District 12 officiated the district's reaping, drawing Lucy Gray Baird as the tribute. He was taken aback when Lucy Gray Baird put a snake down his daughter Mayfair Lipp's dress. His lenient approach towards Mayfair was later scrutinized by the Peacekeepers following Mayfair's demise.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Mayor Lipp react to Lucy Gray Baird's actions during the reaping?
						
				
				
					
						During the 10th Hunger Games, Mayor Lipp was taken aback when Lucy Gray Baird, whom he had reaped, placed a snake in his daughter Mayfair Lipp's dress. His shock swiftly transformed into rage, resulting in him striking Lucy Gray and leaving a bruise. Subsequently, he became convinced that Lucy Gray was responsible for the deaths of Mayfair and Billy Taupe, prompting him to seek her arrest.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the relationship between Mayor Lipp and Mayfair Lipp?
						
				
				
					
						Mayor Lipp, the mayor of District 12 during the 10th Hunger Games, is the father of Mayfair Lipp. His permissive parenting style allowed Mayfair to run wild, which drew criticism from the Peacekeepers following her demise. Mayfair was in a relationship with Billy Taupe Clade.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What happened to Mayor Lipp after he struck Lucy Gray?
						
				
				
					
						Following his assault on Lucy Gray, Mayor Lipp became convinced that she was responsible for the deaths of his daughter and Billy Taupe. He waited outside the Covey's house in the Seam for hours, intending to have her arrested. However, when Lucy Gray vanished into the woods of District 12, suspicion fell on Mayor Lipp for her possible murder, although no evidence was found.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Is there any information about Mayor Lipp's death?
						
				
				
					
						No explicit details about Mayor Lipp's death are given. He was suspected of involvement in Lucy Gray's disappearance, who he believed was responsible for his daughter Mayfair Lipp's death and Billy Taupe's. Lucy Gray vanished in the woods of District 12, leading to suspicions that Mayor Lipp may have killed her, but no evidence was found to confirm this.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Mayor Lipp was the mayor of District 12 and conducted the district's reaping for the 10th Hunger Games. After reaping Lucy Gray Baird at his daughter Mayfair Lipp's request, he watched in shock as the girl slipped a snake down Mayfair's dress. He ran down the steps to his daughter, helping Mayfair to her feet and handing her to a Peacekeeper to lead away. Back at the stage, he struck Lucy Gray in the face and was taken away by the Peacekeepers himself to calm down before being brought back to pull out the name of the district's male tribute, Jessup Diggs.[1]
Mayor Lipp was present during Arlo Chance's hanging, along with his wife and daughter. They arrived at the hanging tree in an old car that would have been considered a luxury before the Dark Days, and formed a tight knot at the side of the platform.[2]
After Mayfair was killed, Mayor Lipp went to the Peacekeeper base and pitched a fit to Commander Hoff about his daughter's murder, but he was not taken seriously.[3] The mayor was also sure that Lucy Gray had killed both his daughter and Billy Taupe, whose body had been found beside hers. He drove his car down to the Covey's house in the Seam, waiting outside for hours, and was determined to get Lucy Gray arrested.[4] When she disappeared into the woods outside District 12, many people suspected that the mayor himself had killed her, though they couldn't prove it.[5]

Physical description[]
Mayor Lipp was a squat, freckled man. During the reaping for the 10th Hunger Games, he wore a hopelessly outdated suit.[1]

Family[]

"... since he’d spoiled Mayfair rotten and let her run loose like a wildcat, the feeling was he had no one to blame but himself if she had been keeping time with a rebel."
—The Peacekeeper response to Mayfair's death[src]
Mayor Lipp had a permissive attitude towards Mayfair. After her murder, the opinion among Peacekeepers seemed to be that he had spoiled his daughter, so it was his fault as a parent that she had gotten in with a dangerous crowd.[3] Nothing is known of his relationship with his wife, save that he had one.[2]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 29

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue






