

Messalla


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Early-mid 20s



	
		Occupation
	
	Film assistant



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol
District 13 (briefly)



	
		Weapon
	
	Gun



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased: Killed by Pod in Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Mockingjay - Part 1
Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Evan Ross





Messalla was part of a TV crew that filmed propos for the war as part of the Airtime Assault. He was the assistant of Cressida, the director. Messalla was originally from the Capitol, but joined the rebels during the Second Rebellion.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Death
3 Physical description
4 Etymology
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Messalla play in the TV crew filming the war propos?
						
				
				
					
						In the Second Rebellion, Messalla, a Capitol native, served as Cressida's assistant in the TV crew that filmed war propos. His duties included note-taking, assembling the propos, and assisting Katniss Everdeen with makeup. He also set off smoke charges to create atmosphere during shoots. Messalla and the TV crew accompanied Squad 451 on a mission to the Capitol to continue filming the war propos.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did Messalla, originally from the Capitol, join the rebels during the Second Rebellion?
						
				
				
					
						Originally from the Capitol, Messalla joined the Second Rebellion in the Hunger Games series. He worked alongside Cressida as her assistant and was part of the TV crew that documented Katniss Everdeen in District 8. His contribution to the rebellion involved assembling the propos.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Messalla's mission when he traveled to District 8 with the TV crew?
						
				
				
					
						As an assistant to director Cressida, Messalla journeyed to District 8 with a TV crew. His task was to capture footage of Katniss Everdeen at the hospital, during which he took notes and contributed to the creation of the propos. Messalla and the TV crew also joined Squad 451 on a Capitol mission during the Second Rebellion.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the purpose of Squad 451's mission to the Capitol, and how was Messalla involved?
						
				
				
					
						During the Second Rebellion, Squad 451, composed of expert marksmen, was deployed for a mission to the Capitol. Messalla, a defector from the Capitol, was part of the TV crew that filmed the squad's operations. He assisted in filming Katniss Everdeen in District 8 and contributed to the production of the propos. On the mission, Messalla aided Katniss with makeup and ignited smoke charges for filming ambiance. Despite being injured in a bomb blast, he was resuscitated and persevered with the mission.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Messalla traveled to District 8 along with the rest of the TV crew to film Katniss Everdeen in the hospital there. He was seen scribbling notes,[1] and later helped put together the propos.[2]
When Squad 451 was selected for a mission to go to the Capitol, the TV crew came along as well to continue to film propos for the war. To prepare for a shoot, Messalla helped Katniss with makeup and set off smoke charges for the atmosphere. While they were filming, Boggs, the commander of Squad 451, triggered a bomb that blew off his legs. The explosion also threw Messalla into a wall and knocked him out, but fortunately, he was revived by Finnick Odair and a few others before continuing with the mission.[3]
At one point, the team was forced to find refuge in an abandoned apartment that bore the same floorplan as Messalla's previous residence in the Capitol. Messalla proved himself most valuable, since he knew where people would most likely stash food in the hidden storage spaces. As a result, the team found many canned goods.[4]

Death[]

"Two of Gale's arrows already lie useless beside the wide shaft of golden light that radiates from ceiling to floor. Inside, Messalla is as still as a statue, poised up on the ball of one foot, head tilted back, held captive by the beam. I can't tell if he's yelling, although his mouth is stretched wide. We watch, utterly helpless, as the flesh melts off his body like candle wax."
—Messalla's death[src]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Messala's death portrait. 		 	 
Later in the mission, when the team was underground in the Transfer and running from the lizard mutts, Messalla fell prey to an unnamed pod. He was trapped in a wide shaft of golden light that radiated from the ceiling to the floor. Gale Hawthorne's arrows were unable to penetrate it, and Messalla was completely still inside the shaft of light as his flesh melted off his body. The other members were unable to do anything but watch him slowly die. Cressida was greatly upset by his death, as he was her assistant and friend.[5]
In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2, his death is similar to in the book, as he was hit by a beam of light coming down from the ceiling whilst the team ran through the underground car park. Messalla ran into one of the light traps as the light was on, and he was vaporized by the pod.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 	 
Physical description[]
Messalla was described as being a slim young man with several sets of earrings. His tongue had also been pierced, and he wore a stud with a silver ball the size of a marble.[1] In the film, his appearance was much the same, except he also had several piercings in his lower lip and one in the bridge of his nose.

Etymology[]
Messalla is most likely named after a branch of the gens Valeria patrician family in ancient Rome, which fits into the series-wide naming theme of naming Capitolites after ancient Greco-Roman figures, mythical or historical.

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 7

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 8

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 20

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 21

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 22






