

Messalina Trinket

	Biographical Information


	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Silius Trinket (husband)Effie and Proserpina Trinket (great-nieces)



	
		Fate
	
	Presumed deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping





Messalina Trinket was the great-aunt of Effie and Proserpina Trinket. She was married to Silius Trinket.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Personality and traits
3 Etymology
4 References



Biography[]
Messalina was active during the war. Because of this, she had to attend many funerals, and thus owned a lot of black clothing. According to Effie, Messalina once brought great disgrace to the Trinket family. The disgrace involved weapons and blood, as Haymitch found a "decorative" holster and bloodstains on the clothes he borrowed from Silius.[1]
The Trinket family still hadn't recovered their reputation by the time of the 50th Hunger Games. Before the interviews, Effie asked Messalina if she could use her clothes to dress Lou Lou and Maysilee Donner, and she acquiesced, presumably feeling that she'd owed Effie for the shame she'd brought to the family.[1]

Personality and traits[]
According to Proserpina, Messalina "never" threw anything away.[1] 

Etymology[]
Messalina was the third wife of the Roman emperor Claudius. She had a reputation as a ruthless and promiscuous woman. In particular, she had an affair with Senator Gaius Silius, had him divorce his wife, and then married Silius while the emperor was away. They were both executed, and the Roman Senate ordered that Messalina be erased from memory.[2]
The name "Trinket" refers to a small ornament or item of jewelry that is of little value. This is very fitting for Effie, and the rest of the Capitol citizens, as they prize meaningless possessions that though may have cost a lot, have no real purpose and are just for show. This helps to emphasize the poverty and starvation in the Districts, where people can not even afford to eat, let alone waste money on flashy objects and clothing.

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 13

↑  Messalina on Wikipedia







