

Mrs. Plinth


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Also known as
	
	Ma (by Sejanus Plinth and Coriolanus Snow)



	
		Home
	
	The CapitolDistrict 2 (formerly)



	
		Relatives
	
	Unnamed sisterStrabo Plinth (husband)Sejanus Plinth (son)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Daniela Grubert





Mrs. Plinth, also referred to as Ma Plinth, was the mother of Sejanus Plinth, one of the mentors of the 10th Hunger Games. She and Sejanus moved to the Capitol from District 2 after the Dark Days, as her husband Strabo had made enough money to integrate himself and his family into the Capitol lifestyle.[1]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Early life
1.2 Move to the Capitol
1.3 10th Hunger Games


2 Physical description
3 Personality
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who is Mrs. Plinth's son in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Mrs. Plinth's son is Sejanus Plinth. He served as a mentor during the 10th Hunger Games. The Plinth family, including Mrs. Plinth and Sejanus, relocated from District 2 to the Capitol.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of the Plinth family in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Originating from District 2, the Plinth family's significance in the Hunger Games narrative stems from their profiteering during the First Rebellion. Strabo Plinth's alliance with the Capitol, coupled with the family's sudden wealth, led to their immediate Capitol citizenship, granting them privileges typically earned over generations. Their contribution to the First Rebellion was substantial, supplying most weaponry used against District 13.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Mrs. Plinth and her family integrate into the Capitol lifestyle?
						
				
				
					
						The Plinth family, including Mrs. Plinth, moved to the Capitol from District 2 after the Dark Days. Strabo Plinth, Mrs. Plinth's husband, had accumulated substantial wealth, making them the last 'new money' family. Their wealth and Capitol citizenship were obtained by siding with the Capitol during the First Rebellion and profiting from the provision of weaponry against District 13. Their newfound affluence allowed them privileges that even longstanding, powerful families had earned over generations, including personal Avox drivers.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who is Daniela Grubert in relation to Mrs. Plinth?
						
				
				
					
						In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, the character Mrs. Plinth is portrayed by Daniela Grubert, a German actress with a background in theater from the Berlin University of the Arts.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Early life[]
Ma Plinth was born and raised in District 2 alongside her sister.[2] She later married Strabo and had a son with him several years before the Dark Days began. During the war, Ma Plinth always forced her son to drink posca (watery wine with honey and herbs). Sejanus later told Coriolanus Snow of this, and Coriolanus was secretly repulsed that he was about to be overtaken by somebody who referred to their mother as "Ma".[1]

Move to the Capitol[]
The first time the Plinths arrived in the Capitol, Ma was anxious and thought it a disaster, but was calmed down by a young Sejanus.[3] She had only brought a handful of things from District 2, which she later set up in a corner of her new kitchen. After her move, the only person from District 2 who kept in touch was her sister, who sent her a needlepoint of a mountain scene overlaid with the word "home".[2]

10th Hunger Games[]
Before Sejanus headed to the Capitol Zoo where the tributes were being held, Ma made sandwiches for each of the tributes.[4] Coriolanus also took one, finding it to be delicious, and Sejanus agreed to tell his mother he thought so.[5]
When Coriolanus was injured in the bombing of the Capitol Arena, Ma baked a homemade casserole, which she took over to the Snows' apartment.[6]
Following the interviews for the Games, Sejanus appeared with Ma and introduced her to Coriolanus. He thanked her for the casserole, but Ma thanked him in return for being a friend to her son. Coriolanus then told her he would be at her service, rendering Ma speechless with emotion.[7]
The first night of the Games, Ma went to the Snows' penthouse after her son hadn't come home. She was very worried, but upon turning to leave, she saw Sejanus on-screen in the arena.[8] She told the Grandma'am that he was sprinkling bread crumbs on the dead body of Marcus, his tribute, to aid him on his journey. After a call from Volumnia Gaul, Mrs. Plinth and Coriolanus went to the arena to collect Sejanus. She apologized for her son and refused to let Coriolanus enter the arena himself. However, when he did, Coriolanus told Sejanus that Ma was waiting for him, and he eventually agreed to come. As thanks, Ma gifted him food, part of which Coriolanus later gave to Lucy Gray Baird. He ate two of her egg-and-sausage rolls for breakfast himself.[3]
Coriolanus visited the Plinths the third night of the Games, catching Ma in the kitchen. She offered him milk, blackberry pie and ice cream before he headed up to talk to Strabo.[2]
When Sejanus was sent to become a Peacekeeper in District 12 along with Coriolanus, Ma sent them packages of baked goods. Because of them, the boys and their bunkmates were able to trade for luxuries such as liquor at the Hob. Ma also sent Coriolanus a separate letter, thanking him for all he had done and requesting that he continue to keep an eye on her son.[9]
After Coriolanus returned home from District 12 and Ma learned of Sejanus's hanging, she and her husband moved into the apartment below the Snows'. Ma came by daily to help the Grandma'am, acting as a maid. On the day that would have been Sejanus's nineteenth birthday, Coriolanus returned his box of personal possessions to Ma and Strabo Plinth.[10]

Physical description[]

"Sejanus appeared, in another brand-new suit, with a rumpled little woman in an expensive flowered dress on his arm. It didn't matter. You could put a turnip in a ball gown and it would still beg to be mashed. Coriolanus had no doubt this could only be Ma."
—Sejanus arriving with his mother[src]
After the interviews, Ma was seen in an expensive flowered dress.[7]
Mrs. Plinth was referred to as "frumpier than ever" and "pathetic" by Coriolanus after she arrived at the Snows' place when Sejanus had gone missing. Often, she was seen clutching a handbag, the contents of which are unknown, with the exception of handkerchiefs that she used to wipe her tears upon getting emotional.[8]

Personality[]
Ma Plinth was a loving mother towards Sejanus, and she extended her kindness to Coriolanus, her son's only friend. She was also a skilled cook; Coriolanus described her as "something of an artist in the kitchen" during a visit to the Plinth family's apartment.[2]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 15

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 5

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ 7.0 7.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ 8.0 8.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 25

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue







