

Natalie Dormer


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Natalie Dormer



	
		Character
	
	Cressida



	
		Birthday
	
	February 11, 1982



	
		Birthplace
	
	Reading, England, UK



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 and The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Years active
	
	2005–present



Natalie Dormer is an English actress who portrayed Cressida in the movies The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 & 2.

Contents

1 Early life and education
2 Career
3 Personal life
4 External links



Early life and education[]
Dormer was born in Reading, Berkshire. She attended Chiltern Edge Secondary School before moving to Reading Blue Coat School, an independent boys' school that admits girls in the sixth form. She grew up with her stepfather, mother, sister Samantha, and brother Mark. She has said that she was the victim of bullying while at school, but "still to this day [she] can't place why". At school, Dormer was head girl, a straight-A student, and vice-captain of the school netball team. She also got to travel the world with her school's public speaking team.
During her school years, Dormer trained in dance at the Allenova School of Dancing. She describes herself as the "academic hopeful" of the family and hoped to be offered a place to study history at Cambridge; but, in her A-level History exam, she did not achieve the A grade she needed to attend. Dormer decided she would audition for drama schools and decided to train at the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art in London.

Career[]
Dormer's film debut was Casanova, which was released in 2005. In 2007 and 2008 she played Anne Boleyn in the first two seasons of The Tudors for which she received highly positive reviews. She currently plays Margaery Tyrell on the hit television series Game of Thrones. Natalie has also acted in some films such as Captain America: The First Avenger. In August 2013, it was announced that Dormer was cast as Cressida in both parts of The Hunger Games: Mockingjay. In preparation for the role, she shaved the left side of her head.

Personal life[]
Dormer became engaged to Irish director Anthony Byrne in 2011, having met in Dublin whilst filming The Tudors in 2007. They called off the engagement in 2018.

External links[]
 Natalie Dormer at the Internet Movie Database
 Natalie Dormer on Wikipedia




