

Otho Mellark


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	40s



	
		Occupation
	
	Baker



	
		Home
	
	Merchant section of District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Mrs. Mellark (wife) †Unnamed oldest son †Unnamed second oldest son †Peeta Mellark (youngest son)Katniss Everdeen (daughter-in-law)Unnamed granddaughterUnnamed grandson



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games
Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games film







"I'll keep an eye on the little girl. Make sure she's eating."
—Mr. Mellark to Katniss Everdeen[src]
Otho Mellark was a baker who lived in District 12. One of his sons, Peeta Mellark, was the male tribute for District 12 in both the 74th and the 75th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games
1.2 Death


2 Family
3 Physical description
4 Personality and traits
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Why didn't Mr. Mellark buy Peeta's entry out of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						There is no mention of an option for Mr. Mellark to buy Peeta's entry out of the Hunger Games in the source material. Instead, he pledged to care for Katniss's sister, Prim, due to his past connection with Katniss's mother and his business dealings with Katniss. Mr. Mellark, along with his family, excluding Peeta, perished when the Capitol bombed District 12 post the 75th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Mr. Mellark's profession in District 12?
						
				
				
					
						Mr. Mellark worked as a baker in the Merchant section of District 12. He belonged to the merchant class of the district. His son, Peeta Mellark, participated as a tribute in the 74th and 75th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who did Mr. Mellark originally want to marry before he married Mrs. Mellark?
						
				
				
					
						Before marrying his wife, Mr. Mellark desired to wed the mother of Katniss. However, she was enamored with Mr. Everdeen. Despite this, Mr. Mellark bore no ill feelings towards Mrs. Everdeen. He ultimately married another woman, who became Mrs. Mellark.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How many sons did Mr. Mellark have?
						
				
				
					
						In The Hunger Games series, Mr. Mellark is the father of three sons. His eldest and middle sons remain unnamed throughout the series, while his youngest son is known as Peeta Mellark, a central character in the trilogy.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What are some character traits of Peeta Mellark that he may have inherited from Mr. Mellark?
						
				
				
					
						Peeta Mellark, a key protagonist in The Hunger Games trilogy, likely inherited several traits from his father, Mr. Mellark. Mr. Mellark was a large, broad-shouldered man with burn scars from years of bakery work. He was a quiet, kinder, and more generous individual compared to his wife, often engaging in trades. He likely passed on his blond hair and blue eyes, typical of the merchant class, to Peeta.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Otho Mellark was a member of District 12's merchant class. He attended the reaping of the 50th Hunger Games. After Woodbine Chance was killed for attempting to run, Mellark was bewildered when the crowd was ordered to fall to the ground. Burdock Everdeen had to punch him in the back of his knee before he obeyed.[1] 
In his youth, he wanted to marry Asterid Everdeen, but she "ran off with a coal miner," Burdock.[2] Mr. Mellark married another woman instead, who became Mrs. Mellark. They had three sons, with their youngest, Peeta, being born the same year that Mr. and Mrs. Everdeen had their first child, Katniss. He and his family lived above the bakery where they worked.[3]
On Peeta's first day of school, Mr. Mellark pointed Katniss out to Peeta and told him of his past with her mother, particularly how she'd fallen for Mr. Everdeen's singing voice.[2] Katniss and Gale Hawthorne tended to trade with Mr. Mellark when his wife was out, offering up squirrels they'd shot in exchange for bakery bread.[4]  Mr. Mellark often commented on how Katniss's arrows never pierced the squirrel's body, instead shooting them cleanly through the eye.[5] He also traded generous amounts of bread for Primrose Everdeen's goat cheeses at the Hob.[4]

74th Hunger Games[]
After saying goodbye to Peeta after the reaping, Mr. Mellark visited Katniss, gave her a packet of cookies, and promised to keep an eye on Prim and make sure she was eating.[4] He presumably made this visit because of his past feelings for Katniss's mother, as well as the business relationship he'd developed with Katniss herself over the years.[4]
In the film, he only briefly appeared in the bakery in Katniss's flashback, while his wife beat Peeta.[6]

Death[]
After the events of the 75th Hunger Games, he and the rest of Peeta's family were killed when the Capitol bombed District 12.[7] Mr. Mellark was included in the memory book Katniss, Peeta, and Haymitch made after the war, highlighting how he brought Katniss the cookies.[8]

Family[]
Mr. Mellark had a wife, Mrs. Mellark, and the two of them had three children. Their first son is unnamed, and he was over 18 at the time of the 74th Hunger Games reaping. Their second son, also unnamed, was 17 or 18 at the time, while Peeta was the youngest at 16.[3] Mr. and Mrs. Mellark and their two older sons died in the bombing of District 12.[7] Peeta survived the Second Rebellion and went on to marry Katniss Everdeen, eventually having a son and a daughter together.[9]

Physical description[]
Katniss described Mr. Mellark as a big, broad-shouldered man with burn scars from years at the oven.[4] He had meaty hands and blond hair.[1]

Personality and traits[]
Mr. Mellark was not a talkative man, but he was described as being "much nicer" than his wife, and he was quite generous in his trades with Katniss, Gale, and especially Prim, when Mrs. Mellark was not around.[4] He didn't seem to harbor any resentment towards Mrs. Everdeen for marrying someone else, and he treated her children kindly and respectfully.

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 2

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 22

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 2

↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 The Hunger Games, Chapter 3

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 7

↑ The Hunger Games (film)

↑ 7.0 7.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 1

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 27

↑ Mockingjay, Epilogue




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White






