

Otto


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 6



	
		Weapon
	
	Crossbow (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Nova Just







"Their musing was interrupted by a loud "Woo-hoo!" The tributes from District 6 began a funny dance, and the Ring twins got some of the audience to clap along in rhythm. After that, things became almost festive."
—Coriolanus Snow describing Otto and Ginnee dancing for the Capitol citizens.[src]
Otto was a tribute from District 6 for the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Apollo Ring. He died before the Games started. During the Ring twins' funeral, the bodies of him and his district partner, Ginnee (or what remained of them), were draped on horses and paraded down Scholars Road.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death

1.1.1 Film adaptation




2 Etymology
3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What district was Otto a tribute for in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Otto represented District 6 as a tribute. He was recognized for his upbeat demeanor and proficiency with a crossbow. Tragically, a bombing event claimed his life before the Games commenced.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Otto's mentor during the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Otto, a tribute from District 6, was under the mentorship of Apollo Ring. During this period, the Hunger Games mentor program was newly established, and mentors were selected from the Academy's high-performing students.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Otto die before the start of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Otto, a participant from District 6 in the 10th Hunger Games, met his end prior to the commencement of the Games due to a bombing during an arena tour. In the film adaptation, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Otto survived until the arena but was slain by Mizzen in the initial chaos after trying to secure a weapon from the arena's center.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What happened to Otto's body after his death?
						
				
				
					
						Otto's demise occurred during a Capitol Arena tour due to rebel bomb shrapnel. Posthumously, his body was displayed on a horse's back and paraded on Scholars Road during the Ring twins' funeral.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How was Otto chosen as a tribute for the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Otto, a tribute from District 6, was chosen for the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor, Apollo Ring, guided him. However, Otto's life was cut short due to a bombing incident during an arena tour, prior to the commencement of the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Otto grew up in District 6 and became his district's male tribute in the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1]
Along with the other tributes, Otto was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2] While in the zoo, Otto and Ginnee began a funny dance, and their mentors, Apollo and Diana Ring, got some of the audience to clap along. This led to the environment becoming more festive and social.[3]

Death[]
Before the start of the Games, the tributes and their mentors were taken on a tour of the Capitol Arena. During the tour, rebel bombs exploded, sending shrapnel that killed Otto, as well as his district partner and their mentors.
His body was later draped on the back of a horse and paraded down Scholars Road during the Ring twins' funeral.[4]

Film adaptation[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Otto shooting Sheaf with a crossbow. 		 	 
Instead of being killed in the bombing, Otto survived to see the arena. When the gong rang, he initially headed toward the pile of weapons but changed his mind and chased after Sheaf. He tried for some time to kill her before eventually grabbing a crossbow and shooting an arrow into her leg. Before she could get up, he shot another arrow into her back. He then saw other tributes fighting and tried to hide when he saw Hy, who he chased; however, upon entering the tunnels, he decided to hide under some rubble. Between Marcus and Bobbin's deaths, he was killed by unknown means offscreen, placing 12th. His body was seen being dragged out from a pile of rubble by Coral and her alliance, suggesting they were responsible for his death.[5]

Etymology[]
Otto's name might come from the German engineer Nicolaus Otto, who successfully developed the first modern internal combustion engine during the Industrial Revolution. It could also be derived from the word "automobile".

Gallery[]
Sabyn and Otto in the Capitol Zoo.Otto's face on the monitors.Concept art of Otto and Ginnee's costumes.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





