

Panache Barker


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	17-18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (50th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 1



	
		Relatives
	
	Palladium Barker



	
		Weapon
	
	Sword



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping (upcoming)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Jhaleil Swaby[1]







"We fought, you lost, now you die!"
—Panache Barker talking to Haymitch Abernathy, about to kill him[src]
Panache Barker was one of two male tributes from District 1 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games.[2] He was related to Palladium Barker, the victor of the 46th Hunger Games.[3]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 50th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Death




2 Physical description
3 Personality
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References



Biography[]
50th Hunger Games[]
Prior to the Hunger Games themselves, Panache sucker-punched Haymitch Abernathy in the rib cage. Before Haymitch could do anything to retaliate, Panache was tased by a Peacekeeper and then three more pulled him away.[4] 
Panache's podium was two podiums to the right of Haymitch's.[5] Panache was part of the Career pack in these Games. During the Cornucopia bloodbath, Panache killed Wyatt Callow as he protected Lou Lou, then killed five other Newcomers using a sword that he had claimed.[6] He was also able to acquire a shield to go with his sword.[7]
On the fourth day, Panache was caught in the eruption of the arena's artificial volcano, but he survived. Panache was left with burns along his arms and legs, cracked lips, and a mad-dog look in his eyes.[7]

Death[]
Panache, Barba and Angler attacked Haymitch Abernathy following the volcano eruption. Haymitch quickly dispatched the other two Careers before facing off against Panache, still armed with a sword, who was able to effortlessly disarm Haymitch. Haymitch tried and failed to talk Panache down, but he was saved when Maysilee Donner shot Panache in the throat with a poison dart, killing him. Haymitch chose not to take Panache's sword for himself as it was stained with Newcomer blood which creeped Haymitch out. Haymitch wasn't Panache's heir, the new leader of the pack, and he refused to present himself as such.[7][8]

Physical description[]
Panache weighed about 300 pounds.[2] He was left-handed.[3] He was the physically largest tribute in the 50th Games.[9]
In the training center, he and his district partners wore "snot-green."[10]

Personality[]
Panache was arrogant and hot-headed. He enjoyed taunting the other tributes and proved to be a brutal fighter. Despite his brutality he constantly displayed himself as a vain idiot with many openly mocking his intelligence. Panache also showed a bloodthirsty side where he refused to listen to reason when attempting to kill Haymitch which ultimately led to his death.

Etymology[]
Panache is a French word that implies flamboyancy and reckless courage, fitting with the District 1 tradition of giving their children luxurious or lofty-sounding names and his vain personality. Barker is an English surname meaning "a leather tanner."[11]

Trivia[]
Wyatt Callow practiced evaluating Panache's odds with Drusilla Sickle.[9] According to Wyatt:
Panache was the largest tribute.
He scored high with the Gamemakers.
He had odds of eleven-to-one.
He had a 31.25% chance of winning the Games.
Panache is the only tribute with more than one confirmed bloodbath kill in the books. He killed 6 tributes, including Wyatt Callow.
References[]


↑ ‘The Hunger Games: Sunrise On The Reaping’ Casts Jhaleil Swaby As Panache.

↑ 2.0 2.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ 3.0 3.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 4

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 7

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 15

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 17

↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 19

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 20

↑ 9.0 9.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 12

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 8

↑ Meaning, origin and history of the surname Barker - Behind the Name




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White






