The Panem flag is the symbol of the country of Panem.

Contents

1 Design

1.1 Old Panem flag
1.2 Hunger Games era
1.3 Post-Second Rebellion


2 History

2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes

2.1.1 Film adaptation


2.2 Sunrise on the Reaping


3 Other symbols

3.1 Capitol seal
3.2 District seals
3.3 Seal of Panem
3.4 Panema


4 Trivia
5 References



Design[]
Old Panem flag[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The flag of Panem during the 10th and 50th Hunger Games. 		 	 
The earliest known version of the Panem flag appeared in The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes and The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping. It had a solid crimson backdrop with a stylized gold eagle on it. The bird had its wings spread and its head was turned over its right shoulder, facing the flag's left. The eagle was surrounded by a circle of thirteen 4-pointed stars. When displayed as a banner in the Capitol Arena, it had a gold border and twelve gold stripes going down from the top vertically, guiding the viewer's eye down to the eagle emblem.
In the Sunrise on the Reaping film, the emblem of the flag could be seen on the door of the Justice Building during the teaser. Therefore, it is safe to assume that the flag changed sometime after the 50th Hunger Games.

Hunger Games era[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The flag of Panem during the Hunger Games era. 		 	 
The next known iteration of the flag consisted of a red banner with a similar, but altered, stylized gold eagle at its center. It looked in the same direction as the old flag, but it held four arrows in each of its feet, pointing to the left and right, and it was surrounded by a gold laurel of barley. This flag was in use through the period of the Hunger Games and the reign of President Coriolanus Snow.

Post-Second Rebellion[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The flag of Panem after the Second Rebellion. 		 	 
Following the overthrow of Snow's regime at the end of the Second Rebellion in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2, the new government adopted a different flag. This flag possesses a navy blue banner, with a gold circle at its center with rising chevrons above it. At its base is a banner is emblazoned with the nation's name. Surrounding it is a gold olive branch laurel, which is in turn surrounded by fourteen stars.

History[]
The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Reaper tearing down the flag. 		 	 
During the 10th Hunger Games, the old Panem flag was strung from the stands in the Capitol Arena.[1] On the third day of the Games, Reaper Ash cut off a scrap of the flag's fabric. He gave this to Lamina to protect her from the sun, and she traded him some of her bread and cheese for it. The Capitol audience was upset by his disrespect for the national symbol. The scrap he gave to Lamina was torn again by Coral to bind Mizzen's knee, and later still that day, Reaper cut a second piece off the main flag to cover up the tributes' bodies, which he had begun to gather in a makeshift morgue. He reclaimed the scrap he gave Lamina and wore it as a cape, which seemed to inspire him.[2]
On the fifth day, he used another piece of the flag to cover Mizzen and Teslee's bodies, then pulled another over Treech. Lucy Gray Baird began to remove these scraps in order to tempt Reaper into chasing her. In the summer heat, she exhausted him to the point that he drank from a puddle she'd poisoned. His final act was to collapse beside Treech and try to cover himself and the others with the flag. This left Lucy Gray as the victor.[3]

Film adaptation[]

"Are you going to punish me now?"
—Reaper addressing the Capitol[src]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Reaper challenging the Capitol. 		 	 
In The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes film, Reaper began to gather the bodies of tributes on the second day of the Games in response to the death of his district partner, Dill. He tore the flag down from the stands without tearing it and laid it over them. When he was done, he stood in front of it with his arms spread out, looked up at a camera, and directly challenged the Capitol, asking twice if they were going to punish him. Soon after, he and the other remaining tributes were killed by snake mutts. Lucy Gray was the sole survivor.[4]

Sunrise on the Reaping[]
During the reaping for the 46th Hunger Games in District 12, the Peacekeepers pulled a kerosene-soaked, burning, smoking flag of Panem from under the temporary stage. Lenore Dove Baird was arrested for the crime, but later let go, even though she was secretly guilty.[5]
A flag of Panem was set up at the window of the apothecary in District 12. This irked Haymitch Abernathy, until Asterid March told him that the Peacekeepers forced them to hang the flag up.[6]

Other symbols[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The Capitol seal. 		 	 
Capitol seal[]
The Capitol seal was a recurring symbol in The Hunger Games trilogy that represented the Capitol. It was never described in the novels, but in the films, it was adapted as a separate symbol from the national flag. However, it had the same eagle holding arrows in its talons, and the barley laurel was also present.

District seals[]
The films gave each district its own seal as well.

District 1 - LuxuryDistrict 2 - MasonryDistrict 3 - TechnologyDistrict 4 - FishingDistrict 5 - PowerDistrict 6 - TransportationDistrict 7 - LumberDistrict 8 - TextilesDistrict 9 - GrainDistrict 10 - LivestockDistrict 11 - AgricultureDistrict 12 - Coal miningDistrict 13 - Graphite & nuclearOld District 12 seal (TBOSAS)
Seal of Panem[]
Like the Capitol seal, the seal of Panem was never described in the trilogy, so it is unclear whether this was its own symbol or if it was another way to refer to the Capitol seal. It was first mentioned after the arrival of Romulus Thread in District 12, when the seal of Panem was hung from the roof of the Justice Building.[7] Whether or not it was the same as the Capitol seal, this implies it also represented the Capitol's power over the districts.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The statue of Panema in the Corso. 		 	 
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Panema emblem. 		 	 
Panema[]
Leif Heanzo, a concept artist for The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes film, designed the statue of a woman holding crossed swords above her head in the Corso. Alongside his design studies, she was referred to as Panema.[8]



Trivia[]
The Capitol audience's outrage at Reaper might reflect or critique the culture of reverence towards the American flag in the United States.
According to Sunrise on the Reaping, burning the flag of Panem is an offence worthy of ten years in prison.[5]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Panem flag in The Hunger Games: Illustrated Edition 		 	 
The thirteen stars on the old Panem flag could either represent the original thirteen districts, or the twelve remaining districts and the Capitol. The fourteen stars on the post-Second Rebellion flag suggest that the thirteen districts and the Capitol are all united and equal.
In The Hunger Games: Illustrated Edition, the flag is depicted as one large star surrounded by twelve smaller dots, representing the Capitol's power over twelve districts.
The old Panem flag bears some similarity to the historical American Betsy Ross flag. It had a circle of thirteen white stars within the blue rectangle in the upper left, like the stars around the Panem eagle.
The eagle motif on the first two flags is very similar to the Great Seal of the United States, which features a bald eagle— the country's national bird— holding an olive branch in its right foot and thirteen arrows with the left. The olive branch traditionally symbolizes peace, so the fact that the Panem eagle only held arrows likely represents a perpetual state of war and conflict.
The eagle motif could also be inspired by the Roman aquila, considering the series' many other classical inspirations.
The post-Second Rebellion flag's laurel of olive branches might indicate a commitment to peace from all sides. Its gold circle and chevrons also resemble a sun, possibly symbolizing a new dawn for Panem.
Panema bears some resemblance to Marianne, the personification of the French Republic. Based on her name, she may be a personification of the country of Panem.
In addition, the design of Panema bears a slight resemblance to the Statue of Liberty (primarily the crown) as a reference to Panem's American origin, and the design invokes similarities to Lady Justice, with the scale normally held replaced by another sword.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 13

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ 5.0 5.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 5

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 9

↑ THE HUNGER GAMES - THE STATUES on ArtStation






