

Panlo


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12-18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 9



	
		Weapon
	
	Sword (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Lucas Wilson







"The dead tribute count had escalated, with the two tributes from District 9 having died from their injuries. Apparently, the veterinarian had done her best, but her repeated requests to admit them to the hospital had been refused."
—Coriolanus Snow describing how Panlo and Sheaf were not allowed to see a human doctor.[src]
Panlo was the male tribute from District 9 in the 10th Hunger Games. He was treated by a veterinarian from an incident with his district partner, Sheaf, and his mentor Gaius Breen, but eventually succumbed to his wounds.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death

1.1.1 Film adaptation




2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References



Biography[]
Panlo grew up in District 9 and became his district's male tribute in the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1]
Along with the other tributes, Panlo was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2]

Death[]
Before the start of the Games, the tributes and their mentors were taken on a tour of the Capitol Arena. During the tour, rebel bombs exploded, heavily injuring the District 9 duo and their mentors. He was denied hospital care, in spite of advice given by the veterinarian. Unlike Otto and Ginnee, the two tributes from District 6, Panlo managed to survive a little longer, but eventually succumbed to his wounds.
His body was later draped on the back of a horse and paraded down Scholars Road during Apollo and Diana Ring's funeral.[3]

Film adaptation[]
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, he survived the bombing, but was the first tribute killed in the arena's bloodbath. When the gong rang, Panlo ran towards the pile of weapons, pushing Treech along the way and grabbing a sword, with which he attempted to kill another tribute. After several seconds passed, Tanner fought him, and Coral, who was trying to kill Lucy Gray Baird, speared Panlo in the chest with her trident. Panlo placed 19th.[4]

Etymology[]
Panlo's name comes from "pānis", the Latin word for bread. This is the same word that Panem is derived from.

Trivia[]
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Panlo's odds of winning were 12–1 and he received 346 donations.
Gallery[]
Panlo in the Capitol Zoo.Panlo during the bloodbath.Panlo getting stabbed by Coral.Panlo's face on the monitors.Concept photos of Panlo and Sheaf's outfits.Behind-the-scenes image of Lucas Wilson (Panlo).
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





