This article is in need of clean up and improvement.
 You can help The Hunger Games Wiki by improving it. 
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			A pedestal in the 75th Hunger Games 		 	 

"Sixty seconds. That's how long we're required to stand on our metal circles before the sound of a gong releases us. Step off before the minute is up, and land mines blow your legs off."
—Description of the pedestals[src]
Pedestals were fire-resistant metal plates that tributes stood on during the countdown before a Hunger Games. All 24 pedestals were placed at equal distances from the Cornucopia. Tributes had to wait 60 seconds before the Games began, otherwise a mine would explode. These mines automatically disconnected after the gong sounded.[1]

Contents

1 History

1.1 10th Hunger Games
1.2 50th Hunger Games
1.3 74th Hunger Games
1.4 75th Hunger Games


2 References



History[]
10th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Tributes leaving their "pedestals" during the 10th Hunger Games 		 	 
During the 10th Hunger Games, the podiums were red circles with black numbers on them and were used from the first Games until the 10th Hunger Games. They surrounded the center of the amphitheater where the Capitol seal was located, but after the bombing of the Capitol Arena, the center was covered by a mountain of concrete rubble and beams that fell from the ceiling when it collapsed. In the film, the tributes were led to the red circles with their respective numbers, followed by armed Peacekeepers ready to shoot the tributes if they moved before the gong sounded. From where Lucy Gray Baird stood, she could see Wovey crying in fear to her right and Coral looking at her with hatred. To her left, she saw Dill coughing from her illness, Tanner looking at the weapons, Lamina crying inconsolably, and Teslee being dragged to her place. She also saw Marcus on the other side of the rubble, hanging from concrete beams.[2]
Tribute positions in the film, starting from Lucy Gray's left side: Lucy Gray (12), Dill (11), Tanner (10), Lamina (7), Teslee (3), empty podium at Sabyn (2), Hy (5), Mizzen (4), Bobbin (8), empty podium at Velvereen (1), empty podium at Ginnee (6), Reaper (11), Marcus (2) placed on the beams above his podium, Jessup (12), Otto (6), Sheaf (9), Treech (7), Panlo (9), Sol (5), empty podium at Facet (1), Coral (4), Circ (3), empty podium at Brandy (10), Wovey (8), and again Lucy Gray.

50th Hunger Games[]
For the 50th Hunger Games, which had twice as many tributes, the number of pedestals doubled to 48. These pedestals surrounded the Cornucopia, which was filled with weapons and supplies that could help the tributes during the Games.
When Haymitch Abernathy was being taken to the Launch Room, he saw the order of these rooms on his left. Four rooms with a 6, then four more rooms with a 7, then four with an 8... and so on until he reached the four rooms with an 11 and finally the four rooms with a 12. Once in the arena, Haymitch says that next to him (on the right) are the Career Tributes. Silka Sharp is on his right, then Panache Barker, then the other girl from 1, Carat, and then the other boy from 1, Loupe. After them are the four tributes from District 2, the four tributes from District 3, and the four tributes from District 4. If we follow the order of the list Haymitch saw during the tribute parade, we can conclude that this order was used to place them. First, a girl is placed, then a boy, then another girl, and finally another boy. Therefore, the position of the tributes is easy to figure out.
Book tribute positions: Silka (1), Panache (1), Carat (1), Loupe (1), Camilla (2), Alpheus (2), Nona (2), Janus (2), Dio (3), Ampert (3), Coil (3), Lect (3), Barba (4), Urchin (4), Maritte (4), Angler (4), Anion (5), Hychel (5), Potena (5), Fisser (5), Wellie (6), Miles (6), Velo (6), Atread (6), Autumn (7), Bircher (7), Ringina (7), Heartwood (7), Notion (8), Wefton (8), Alawna (8), Ripman (8), Kerna (9), Ryan (9), Midge (9), Clayton (9), Lannie (10), Buck (10), Peeler (10), Stamp (10), Chicory (11), Hull (11), Blossom (11), Tile (11), Maysilee Donner (12), Wyatt Callow (12), Lou Lou (12), and Haymitch.
In the film, as this was the second Quarter Quell, they had quite striking colors, such as the red platform and the golden metal circle. These, in turn, had flowers of different colors in front of them, forming arrows that pointed to the Cornucopia, which was shaped like a golden, silver, and purple crown. From the new trailer, we know that the position of the pedestals is different from that in the book, as all the tributes are mixed together. We find Haymitch between Silka (to his right, followed by Clayton) and Panache (to his left), who throws his cape on the ground, followed by a girl from District 7 (Autumn). In another shot, we see Lou Lou and, to her left, a male tribute from District 11 (Hull or Tile).[3]

74th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Tributes lined up on pedestals 		 	 
In the book, Katniss mentions that tributes surround the golden Cornucopia and that Peeta is five podiums to her right.[1]
In the film version, the pedestals do not form a circle, like in other iterations of the Games, but a semicircle. When Katniss emerges from her launch tube, she looks to her left and sees Marvel, Clove, the female tribute from District 4, the male tribute from District 8, the female tribute from District 6, and Thresh. To her right, she sees Foxface and the male tribute from District 7 on their pedestals. Four tribute actors didn't participate in the initial bloodbath recording: the girl from 8, both from 9, and the girl from 10. Because of this, only 20 pedestals were added instead of 24. It can be assumed that of those four tributes, two tributes were standing on each end of the semicircle. [4]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Cato and Jason on their pedestals 		 	 
Tribute positions in the film (from the left side of the Cornucopia to the right): District 5 male, District 4 male, Rue (11), Glimmer (1), District 3 male, District 3 female, District 10 male, Peeta Mellark (12), District 7 female, District 6 male, Cato (2), District 7 male, Foxface (5), Katniss (12), Marvel (1), Clove (2), District 4 female, District 8 male, District 6 female and Thresh (11).

75th Hunger Games[]

"There are twelve spokes, each with two tributes balanced on metal plates between them. The other tribute in my watery wedge is old Woof from District 8. He's about as far to my right as the land strip on my left. Beyond the water, wherever you look, a narrow beach and then dense greenery."
—Description of the pedestals in the 75th Hunger Games[src]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Brutus and the District 5 male 		 	 
The pedestals are on the water surrounding the Cornucopia. Between each pair of pedestals is a path of rocks separating the sectors of the arena. In the books, Woof stands on Katniss's right side.[5] When Katniss climbs out of her tube, she frantically scans the arena and sees Cashmere, Brutus, Cecelia, Finnick, Chaff, the District 9 female, and the male tributes from Districts 5 and 10 on their pedestals.
Tribute positions in the film, starting from Katniss's left side: Brutus (2), District 5 male, Woof (8), Blight (7), District 6 female, Beetee (3), Johanna (7), Wiress (3), Cecelia (8), District 9 male, District 10 male, Peeta (12), Mags (4), District 6 male, District 10 female, District 9 female, Finnick (4), Chaff (11), District 5 female tribute, Seeder (11), Enobaria (2), Gloss (1), Cashmere (1) and again Katniss.[6]
These positions make sense, since putting all the rebel tributes together would more easily allowed them to join forces and then flee. On the other hand, putting all the Careers together close to Katniss may be an indication of Snow's intention to kill her. They also coincide with the positions found throughout the bloodbath, for example, the District 10 male tribute near Peeta and Mags watching their fight. It would not have made sense for that tribute to run to the other side to attack Peeta or Seeder and Woof, who are the first to fall after the District 5 male tribute because their podiums are closer to the Careers. And for Beetee, Wiress, and Blight's pedestals to be near Johanna's pedestal, as she mentions that Beetee was wounded in the fight and that they all fled together.

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 11

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping

↑ The Hunger Games film

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 19

↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire






