

Pliny Harrington


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Also known as
	
	Pup



	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Ayomide Adegun





Pliny "Pup" Harrington was a male resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. He was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. He was assigned the female tribute from District 7, Lamina.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 References



Biography[]
His father was a naval commander who watched the waters off District 4. Though his nickname "Pup" was given to distinguish him from his father, his father had nevertheless given him a crew cut and shined shoes to try to mold him in his own image. Even so, Pup was a natural slob who would do things like picking a piece of ham out of his braces and flicking it to the floor.
He did not think much of his tribute, and was unable to get anything out of Lamina during a mentor-tribute session, revealing that she cried for fifteen minutes straight and that he didn't think that District 7 had prepared her for a hangnail, let alone the Games.[1] He also failed to prepare her for the interviews. 
However, Lamina took the first kill of the day, and Pup gave a fist pump before giving her a bottle of water as a sponsor gift. This was the first attempt to deliver a gift to a tribute in the arena, and the bottle crashed, to be replaced with a new one ten minutes afterward. Coriolanus Snow invited Pup to join him and Lepidus Malmsey in an interview later that day, and Pup rattled off every detail he could remember about Lamina, including some possibly fabricated ones as well. He later sent Lamina a slice of bread after she sent Marcus's corpse tumbling to the ground.[2]
When the Plinth Prize, a full ride to the University to the mentor whose tribute won the Games, was announced by Strabo and Sejanus Plinth, Pup let out a whoop.[3]
The third day of the Games, Lamina was approached by Coral, Mizzen and Tanner, the pair from District 4 and the male tribute from District 10 respectively. Pup kept shouting out his thoughts and advice, getting on the other mentors' nerves. When Lamina was killed, Pup cried out in shock. He left the mentor section, slammed his chair down and strode out of the hall, attempting not to cry.[4]

Physical description[]
Pup had a crew cut and shined shoes, but was still a natural slob. He also wore braces around the time of the 10th Hunger Games, which often had bits of food stuck in.[1]

Etymology[]
His name is likely a reference to Pliny the Elder and, nephew and adoptive son of the former, Pliny the Younger. The two men were famous literati in their time; the elder wrote an encyclopaedia called Naturalis Historia. The latter was a Roman governor and is notable for his letters to Trajan and others.

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






