

Pluribus Bell

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Musician/club owner (formerly)Black marketeer



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Cyrus (partner)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes







"I trust you. And I trust your girl. Kind of like to hear what she does with it. You take it and tell her I've got my fingers crossed for her. It's good to have a friend in the audience."
—Pluribus Bell, giving Coriolanus Snow a guitar for Lucy Gray Baird to play[src]
Pluribus Bell was a male resident of the Capitol. He and his family dealt in black market goods, which became more luxurious after the Dark Days. Once a musician, he had a partner named Cyrus.

Contents

1 History
2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role does Pluribus Bell play in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Pluribus Bell, a resident of The Capitol, is a former musician and club owner who becomes a black marketeer. He is notable for his relationship with Coriolanus Snow and Lucy Gray Baird, showing his trust by giving Coriolanus a guitar for Lucy Gray to play.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Pluribus Bell's partner in his music career?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Pluribus Bell, a Capitol resident, had a musical partnership with Cyrus. Besides music, Bell also dealt in luxurious black market goods following the First Rebellion.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What kind of goods did Pluribus Bell and his family deal in?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games universe, Pluribus Bell and his family traded in black market goods, with their offerings becoming more luxurious after the First Rebellion. Besides his involvement in the black market, Bell was also known as a musician with a partner named Cyrus.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How is Pluribus Bell connected to Coriolanus Snow in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Pluribus Bell, a Capitol resident, was Coriolanus Snow's neighbor. Bell, aware of the Snow family's financial struggles, never made them feel inferior or discussed their situation. He gifted a guitar to Lucy Gray Baird, Snow's mentee in the 10th Hunger Games, free of charge. Bell, a former musician with a partner named Cyrus, and his family were involved in the black market trade.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What instrument did Pluribus Bell give to Coriolanus Snow for Lucy Gray Baird?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games universe, Pluribus Bell, a Capitol resident, gifted Coriolanus Snow a guitar. This instrument was meant for Lucy Gray Baird to use in her performance during the 10th Hunger Games, where she was mentored by Coriolanus.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


History[]
Bell was a neighbor of Coriolanus Snow. Coriolanus considered him to be one of the few people that he didn't need to pretend to be wealthy around. During the war, when things were going badly for the Capitol, Snow and his grandmother, the Grandma'am, came to see Pluribus Bell. They had come for canned milk, having run out fresh milk weeks ago. He did not have any, but did have numerous crates of dried lima beans. He told them they would keep for years and he planned to set aside twenty for personal use. The Grandma'am called it "ghastly," but he replied that ghastly was what would happen without them. They then purchased thirty crates, taking one home and the other twenty-nine arriving in the dead of night due to the illegality of hoarding, along with a single can of milk. The Snow family then subsisted on stews and soups made with these beans and sometimes used them for trading.[1]
Pluribus owned a fluffy white cat named Boa Bell.[2] He was fully aware of the Snow family's poverty, but never talked about to anyone else, nor tried to make them feel inferior. He provided Coriolanus with a guitar for Lucy Gray Baird, his tribute that he was mentoring in the 10th Hunger Games, to play at no charge. He once had a club of his own, which he was forced to close down due to hard times. He told Coriolanus that his father used to be a regular at the club with Casca Highbottom, though Snow found this hard to believe, due to Highbottom's seeming grudge against him.[3]
After Snow was forced to join the Peacekeepers, Bell sent him a letter, apologizing and telling him that he felt Highbottom's punishment was excessive. He continued that he got to thinking and recalled that Highbottom and Snow's father had a row towards the end of their University days. He figured that they had patched it up, but apparently not.[4]

Physical description[]
He was an aging man with lemon-tinted spectacles and a white powdered wig that fell to his waist.[1]

Etymology[]
Pluribus's name comes from Latin, meaning "many". It is probably drawn from E pluribus unum, the motto of the United States: "Out of many, one".

Trivia[]
Pluribus is one of four characters confirmed to be a part of the LGBTQ community. The others are his partner Cyrus, Clerk Carmine Clade  and Barb Azure Baird.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 23






