

Porter Millicent Tripp


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15-18 (38th Hunger Games)



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor (38th HG)Tribute



	
		Home
	
	Victor's Village in District 5



	
		Fate
	
	Presumed deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Capitol Couture promo for Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Felicia Porter







"There is only one victor we can imagine making a head brace look stylish-Porter Millicent Tripp from District 5."
—Capitol Couture about Porter Millicent Tripp[src]
Porter Millicent Tripp was the victor of the 38th Hunger Games from District 5.[1] 

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 38th Hunger Games
1.2 Post-Games

1.2.1 Victory Tour


1.3 Death


2 Gallery
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was Porter Millicent Tripp in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						Porter Millicent Tripp, a character in the Hunger Games series, won the 38th Hunger Games representing District 5. After her victory, she took on roles as a mentor and tribute. She lived in Victor's Village in District 5. Her ultimate fate is unknown, but she's presumed deceased. In the Mockingjay - Part 2 Capitol Couture promo, Felicia Porter portrayed her.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Porter Millicent Tripp sustain a spinal injury?
						
				
				
					
						In the climactic battle of the 38th Hunger Games, Porter Millicent Tripp suffered a spinal injury. Consequently, she donned a halo brace for the duration of her Victory Tour.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the Victors' Purge in the Hunger Games and how did it affect Porter Millicent Tripp?
						
				
				
					
						The Victors' Purge refers to the mass execution of former Hunger Games victors during the Second Rebellion, orchestrated by both Capitol and rebel forces. This led to the near eradication of Hunger Games victors, with 52 out of 59 being killed. Porter Millicent Tripp, winner of the 38th Hunger Games representing District 5, is believed to have died, suggesting she fell victim to the Victors' Purge.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
38th Hunger Games[]
Porter broke her neck in the final showdown, resulting in a spinal injury.[1]

Post-Games[]
Victory Tour[]
Due to her injury, Porter had to wear a halo brace throughout her Victory Tour.[1]

Death[]
Although it is unknown how she died, she was dead by the end of the Second Rebellion, as she was absent for the vote on a final 76th Hunger Games. She was likely a victim of the Victors' Purge.[2]

Gallery[]

Etymology[]
"Tripp" likely refers to a "trip switch", which is common in modern breaker boxes, which closes a circuit and cuts power to a house when a problem arises.

Trivia[]
Porter was not mentioned in the original trilogy, but revealed by Capitol Couture, a Hunger Games website promoting the movies.[1]
In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, Haymitch Abernathy said that Finnick Odair was the youngest victor ever at the age of 14.[3] This means that all the victors that came before him in the film continuity, including Porter, had to be at least 15 at the time of their victory.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 PORTER, THE 38TH VICTOR - Capitol Couture

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 26

↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





