

Posy Hawthorne

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	4 (Catching Fire)[1]5 (Mockingjay)[2]



	
		Home
	
	The Seam in District 12District 13 (briefly)



	
		Relatives
	
	Mr. Hawthorne (father)Hazelle Hawthorne (mother)Gale Hawthorne (older brother)Rory Hawthorne (older brother)Vick Hawthorne (older brother)



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire, Mockingjay







"I think you would look pretty in any color."
—Posy to Octavia[src]
Posy Hawthorne is the youngest child and the only female child in the Hawthorne family. She grew up in District 12 and has three older brothers: Vick Hawthorne, Rory Hawthorne, and Gale Hawthorne. Posy's mother, Hazelle Hawthorne, took care of her and her brothers. 

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Catching Fire
1.2 Mockingjay


2 Family
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who are Posy Hawthorne's siblings in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						Posy Hawthorne, the only female child in the Hawthorne family, has three older brothers: Vick, Rory, and Gale Hawthorne. They were raised in District 12 by their mother, Hazelle Hawthorne, following their father's demise.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Posy Hawthorne recover from measles in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Posy Hawthorne fell ill with measles. Her recovery was facilitated by her mother, Hazelle Hawthorne, who took diligent care of her. Further assistance came from Mrs. Everdeen, who provided necessary medicine for Posy's recuperation.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What role does Posy Hawthorne's mother play in her life?
						
				
				
					
						Posy Hawthorne's mother, Hazelle Hawthorne, is a pivotal figure in her life. Hazelle tends to Posy and her brothers, providing care and support. During a bout of measles, Hazelle's nurturing role was evident as she nursed Posy back to health, with additional medical aid from Mrs. Everdeen.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of Posy Hawthorne's character in the Hunger Games series?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Posy Hawthorne, the only female child in the Hawthorne family, holds a significant role. She's from District 12 and is Gale Hawthorne's sister. Posy's father died in the same incident that took the life of Katniss Everdeen's father. To safeguard them due to Katniss' close bond with Gale, the Hawthornes are portrayed as Katniss' cousins. Posy's importance to Katniss is highlighted when jabberjays mimic her voice in the Quarter Quell.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How does Posy Hawthorne's illness affect the Hawthorne family in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The measles illness of Posy Hawthorne necessitated her mother, Hazelle Hawthorne, and Mrs. Everdeen to nurse her back to health. Concurrently, Gale Hawthorne, Posy's brother, was punished for illegal poaching, requiring Mrs. Everdeen's care. The illness had emotional repercussions, with Katniss Everdeen hearing jabberjays imitating Posy's cries during the 75th Hunger Games, causing her to abandon bird hunting.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Catching Fire[]
Around the time Gale was whipped for illegal poaching and had to be taken care of by Mrs. Everdeen, Posy became ill with measles and was nursed back to health by her mother. Mrs. Everdeen also sent medicine for Posy to recover.[3]
In the 75th Hunger Games, Katniss Everdeen was able to hear jabberjays mimicking Posy's cries in one section of the arena. This contributed to her giving up trying to hunt the birds and instead curling up in a ball, trying to block out the noise.[4]

Mockingjay[]
Posy found refuge in District 13 after the bombing of District 12, along with the rest of her family. At one meal, Posy asked if Octavia, a member of Katniss' prep team, was sick because the pallor of her skin was a light shade of green. At first Octavia seemed saddened about it, but then Posy said Octavia would look pretty no matter what shade of color her skin was. This gave Octavia a fondness for little Posy.[2]

Family[]
Posy lived with her mother, Hazelle Hawthorne, and her three brothers; Rory, Vick, and Gale. She never met her father, as he died just before she was born in the same explosion that killed the father of Katniss Everdeen.[5] Katniss Everdeen and her family are very much like family to them, due to her close relationship with Gale. During the 74th Hunger Games, the Hawthornes were publicly referred to as Katniss' cousins, to keep them safe from her and Gale's friendship.[1]

Etymology[]
A posy is a small bouquet of flowers. Her surname comes from hawthorn bushes or trees, but could also be a reference to author Nathaniel Hawthorne.

Trivia[]
Katniss heard Posy's voice, along with those of her siblings when the jabberjays mimicked the voices of loved ones being tortured in the Quarter Quell. Thus it could be inferred that she was important to Katniss as part of Gale's family and her "cousins", Katniss described her as " Posy, helpless little Posy".[4]
She is one of the youngest characters mentioned by age in the series.
In The Hunger Games film, Katniss Everdeen says to Gale at the beginning of the movie that they couldn't live out in the woods because she has Primrose Everdeen and Gale has his brothers to look after, though she does not mention his younger sister, Posy.
Posy's favorite color is said to be bright pink, which was revealed when Gale teased her and told Octavia that Posy would like her even more if she were bright pink.[2]
All four Hawthorne siblings have four-letter names: Gale, Rory, Vick, and Posy.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 1

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Mockingjay, Chapter 5

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 9

↑ 4.0 4.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 24

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 8





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2






