

President's mansion


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Location
	
	The Capitol's City Circle



	
		Inhabitants
	
	President Snow (previous resident)President Coin (briefly)President Paylor (currently)


	Appearances


	
		Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games, Catching Fire, Mockingjay





The President's mansion, also known as the Presidential Palace, is a location which appears in all three books. Found in the City Circle of the Capitol, it was home to President Coriolanus Snow, and briefly, President Alma Coin. After being elected the new president of Panem, Paylor presumably resides there as well.

History[]
During the chariot rides, the tributes rode their chariots in a procession through the Capitol into the City Circle, where they stopped in front of the mansion to listen to a welcoming speech given by Snow.
Following the end of their Victory Tour and arrival in the Capitol, Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark attended a grand party put on in the banquet room. When Plutarch Heavensbee danced with Katniss, he showed her his watch on the pretext of indicating the lateness of the hour and quickly flashed an image of a mockingjay by rubbing the watch face. This was a subtle hint at the nature of the 75th Hunger Games arena, as well as Plutarch's true allegiance to the rebellion. During the 75th Games, the tributes also rode by Snow's mansion.
In Mockingjay, Katniss told Squad 451 that she was on a mission to infiltrate the mansion to kill Snow on Coin's orders. However, the squad never did infiltrate the mansion, because President Snow surrendered to the rebels after a Capitol hovercraft (operated by Coin) dropped bombs on the Capitol children and some rebel medics, including Primrose Everdeen. Later, the mansion became the new home of President Coin. Katniss woke up inside the mansion and went to the rose garden, where she met some rebel soldiers guarding it, but was let in with Commander Paylor's permission. Inside, she found Snow, shackled to a chair and awaiting execution. Snow told Katniss that he himself did not order the bombing; rather, Coin did to force the Capitol to surrender. Later, the surviving victors met and voted to have a Hunger Games including Capitol children. Immediately following this, Katniss was to shoot Snow with an arrow (firing the symbolic "last shot" of the rebellion), but shot and killed Coin instead to avenge Prim's death.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The mansion in the last moments of the war, with the human shield of children being formed 		 	 
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The mansion seen in the Holo map during the beginning invasion of the capitol 		 	 
Description[]
The President's mansion is very large and Katniss presumes it to be full of pods to discourage intruders. It contains a garden, where Snow grows his genetically enhanced roses. It also contains a ballroom, and a meeting room. 

Trivia[]
The Hunger Games: Catching Fire utilizes the Swan House (an historic mansion in Atlanta, Georgia) as the real life Presidential Palace. However, in Mockingjay - Part 1 and Mockingjay - Part 2 the Château de Voisins (Saint-Hilarion, near Paris) was used for filming the presidential reception rooms and the rear facade of the mansion.




