 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Coriolanus Snow, one of the most influential presidents of Panem 		 	 
The president of Panem presides over the entire country, making all major administrative decisions. Panem is shown to be a totalitarian dictatorship, a police state in which the president possessed all the governing power. 
District 13 also had a president, although it was the only district to do so, given that it considered itself independent from the others. Although the district presumably had a republican form of government, and was fighting for freedom and republicanism during both rebellions, the unique situation meant that it was in practice a stratocracy, or a government led by military chiefs. 

Contents

1 History

1.1 Hunger Games and pre-Hunger Games era
1.2 Republic era


2 Powers
3 Known presidents
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was the president of Panem before President Snow in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Before President Snow, Panem was led by President Ravinstill. His leadership spanned from before the First Rebellion and the Dark Days, and he was instrumental in the creation of the Hunger Games following the districts' defeat and District 13's secession. Coriolanus Snow, the Hunger Games president, succeeded him and held power for a minimum of 25 years, including during the 50th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How does the role of the president in Panem differ from that of District 13 in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, the president of Panem, including figures like President Ravinstill and Coriolanus Snow, holds all administrative power in a totalitarian dictatorship. Conversely, District 13, under President Alma Coin, operates independently with a president serving as the head of state, government, and armed forces.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who becomes the president of Panem after the rebellion in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Following the Second Rebellion, President Coriolanus Snow was removed from power and replaced by President Alma Coin of District 13. Coin, however, was assassinated by Katniss Everdeen, triggering an emergency election. The outcome of this election saw Commander Paylor, a rebel leader from District 8, becoming the first democratically elected president of Panem.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What type of government does Panem have under the president's rule in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Panem, under the Hunger Games President, was a totalitarian dictatorship where the President held most of the governing power. Post the Second Rebellion, Panem transitioned into a constitutional republic, indicating a shift towards representative democracy.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How old is President Snow during the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the 74th Hunger Games, President Snow, the President of Panem, was 73 years old. This is determined from his age of 5 at the onset of a civil war, which occurred 74 years prior to the original trilogy.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


History[]
Hunger Games and pre-Hunger Games era[]
President Ravinstill was the first known president of Panem, having led the country since before the Dark Days. He also oversaw the creation of the Hunger Games following the districts' defeat and District 13's secession.[1]
The second known president was Coriolanus Snow, who led Panem for at least 25 years, given that he was president during the 50th Hunger Games.[2] His regime was known to be exceptionally harsh and brutal in maintaining law and order in the districts with the Peacekeeping Corps, causing most citizens to live under brutal oppression and abject poverty. He led the Capitol's forces to unsuccessfully suppress the Second Rebellion, and was killed at the age of 84 years after being sentenced to death after the war. Although he was sentenced to be publicly executed by Katniss Everdeen, her last-minute change of mind led to him being lynched by an angry mob. 
It is unknown when and how Alma Coin became president in District 13, but it was definitely well after its surface was bombed during the Dark Days. The exact details of District 13's government is unknown, although given that they were fighting for freedom and republicanism during both rebellions, the district presumably adopted a republican form of government during their seven decades of political independence. Coin led District 13 and the rebels to successfully topple the Capitol during the Second Rebellion, and took charge of Panem shortly after, sending troops to put down the remaining Capitol resistance.[3] Coin showed autocratic tendencies after the war, being reluctant to organize any elections. She was unexpectedly assassinated by Katniss Everdeen during Snow's execution.[4]

Republic era[]
Commander Paylor was the leader of the rebels in District 8. After Coin was killed, Paylor became president in an emergency election. It can be assumed that with the successful foundation of a constitutional republic as well as numerous reforms, the power of the president was significantly diminished and presumably shared and balanced with that of a legislative branch and a judicial branch.[5]

Powers[]
For much of history, Panem was ruled as a totalitarian dictatorship, a police state in which the president possessed nearly all governing power, delegating some responsibilities to his cabinet as well as the districts' mayors. In both the films and the novels, the president is shown to have the following powers and responsibilities:

Issuing decrees
Commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces (Peacekeepers)
Issuing execution (death penalty) orders
Issuing orders to arrest, detain, imprison, torture, and kill any citizen of Panem
Organizing and overseeing the annual Hunger Games
Adjusting production quota requirements for the districts
Broadcasting and overseeing the broadcasting of Capitol propaganda
Declaring war
Serve as the Mayor of the Capitol (according to prop money featuring President Ravinstill)
Known presidents[]
Ravinstill
Coriolanus Snow
Alma Coin
Paylor
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 25

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 26

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 27






