

Prospero

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	17[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute



	
		Home
	
	District 3



	
		Weapon
	
	Mace



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Movie Mentioned
	
	The Hunger Games film script (early draft)[1]





Prospero was a tribute from District 3 who participated in the 73rd Hunger Games.


	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What district did Prospero represent in the 73rd Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 73rd Hunger Games, the character Prospero was a tribute representing District 3. This detail is found in an early version of The Hunger Games film script.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Prospero manage to kill the District 12 male in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Prospero, a character in an early draft of The Hunger Games film, eliminates the District 12 male using a mace as his weapon of choice.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who announced Prospero's victory over Sage Blanken in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The announcement of Prospero's triumph over Sage Blanken in the Hunger Games was made by Claudius Templesmith. He highlighted Prospero's skill with a mace, which was instrumental in his victory.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is known about Prospero's death in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Prospero's death is not clearly described in the book. In the movie version, he is shown running for supplies in the Cornucopia and later attempting to flee. He meets Cato, and it is implied that his throat was cut by Cato's sword. His death was unexpected to Katniss Everdeen, as Prospero was a Career from District 4.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
This tribute only appears in an early version of a script for The Hunger Games film, where he is named Prospero. Sometime during day 2, he was able to kill Sage Blanken, the District 12 male, with a mace. Claudius Templesmith stated, "Sage Blanken goes down, knocked out by that Prospero boy from District Three - who certainly is handy with a mace!"[1]

Death[]
His time and manner of death are unknown, but he did not make it to the final two, as the victor was the District 2 male and second place was the District 10 male.[2]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 https://www.screenwritersnetwork.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/The-Hunger-Games-1-Script.pdf

↑ The Hunger Games (film)






