

Pugnax


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Nut worker



	
		Home
	
	District 2



	
		Weapon
	
	Gun



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Mockingjay



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	Mockingjay - Part 2



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Cameron MacConomy







"A young man staggers out from the station, one hand pressed against a bloody cloth at his cheek, the other dragging a gun. When he trips and falls to his face, I see the scorch marks down the back of his shirt, the red flesh beneath. And suddenly, he's just another burn victim from a mine accident."
—Description of Pugnax[src]
Pugnax was a District 2 citizen who was formerly employed in the Nut.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Trivia
4 References



Biography[]
Pugnax was among the many workers and miners who survived the Nut's bombing and fled to the city center, where the rebels (who had launched a major offensive and captured the Nut) were waiting for them. He had a ragged hole in his cheek, likely having been injured by falling stone, scorch marks down the back of his shirt, and a gun. Katniss Everdeen saw Pugnax as just another victim from a mine accident and ran to him after ordering the rebels to hold their fire. In response, Pugnax held his gun to her head, asking why he shouldn't kill her. Katniss made an impromptu speech to the Nut personnel, which ended when a man shot her from inside the crowd.[1] She survived, but she lost her spleen and her ribs were badly bruised, leaving her out of action for a month.[2]
In the film, Pugnax shot Katniss in the stomach after she finished her speech, and the rebels proceeded to riddle him with bullets and kill him.[3]

Physical description[]
When he fled from the Nut, Pugnax held a bloody cloth to his cheek, which had been punctured, and had scorch marks down the back of his shirt. He held a gun and had eyes crazed with pain and fear. Pugnax's speech was garbled, and according to Katniss, he smelled of burning things.[1]

Trivia[]
Pugnax remains unnamed in the book. His name is revealed in the movie.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 Mockingjay, Chapter 15

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 16

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2






