

Rachel Zegler


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Rachel Zegler



	
		Character
	
	Lucy Gray Baird



	
		Birthday
	
	May 3, 2001



	
		Birthplace
	
	Hackensack, New Jersey



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Years active
	
	2021-present



Rachel Zegler is an American actress and singer who portrayed Lucy Gray Baird in The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Career

2.1 Awards


3 Trivia
4 External links
5 References



Biography[]
Zegler was born on May 3, 2001, in Hackensack, New Jersey at the Hackensack University Medical Center to Gina and Craig Zegler. She was named after the fictional character Rachel Green from the TV show Friends. She has an older sister. Her mother is of Colombian descent. Zegler's maternal grandmother immigrated from Colombia to the United States in the 1960s. Her father is of Polish descent.
Zegler was raised in Clifton, New Jersey, where she attended St. Philip the Apostle Preparatory School. She then attended the Catholic all-girls college-preparatory Immaculate Conception High School. She graduated from high school on June 2, 2019.

Career[]
Zegler began her career starring in several musicals while attending the Immaculate Conception High School, including playing Belle in Beauty and the Beast (2016), Ariel in The Little Mermaid (2017), Dorothy Brock in 42nd Street (2018), and Princess Fiona in Shrek the Musical (2019). For all four performances, she received Metro Award nominations in the Actress in a Leading Role category. Her other roles include Serena in Legally Blonde, Cosette in Les Misérables, and Millie in Thoroughly Modern Millie.
Zegler's YouTube channel has been active since July 2015 and has received attention. As of 2020, Zegler's video of herself singing "Shallow", from A Star Is Born, has garnered over 11 million views on Twitter.

In January 2018, director Steven Spielberg posted an open casting call via Twitter for a new film adaptation of West Side Story. Zegler, then 16 years old, responded to the casting call tweets with videos of herself singing "Tonight" and "I Feel Pretty"; she had performed the role at the Bergen Performing Arts Center in 2017. Zegler was selected from over 30,000 applicants for the role of Maria, marking her film debut. The film was released in December 2021, and earned acclaim from critics and audiences. For her performance, she received a Critics' Choice Movie Award nomination for Best Young Performer and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Comedy or Musical, making her the first actress of Colombian descent to win in that category as well as the youngest winner in that category at 20 years old. 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 	 
She has since been casted in films such as DC's Shazam: Fury of the Gods, Disney's Snow White and Spellbound.
On May 31, 2022, Variety reported that Zegler had been cast in the role of Lucy Gray Baird after Zegler teased it on her Twitter the night before.[1] Zegler reported receiving death threats following her casting.[2] Zegler reportedly initially turned down the role of Lucy Gray Baird, fearful of traveling thousands of miles to film in Germany and Poland and being so far away from home.[3]

Awards[]
Only awards associated with The Hunger Games franchise are listed.



Year

Film

Award

Status


2023

The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

People's Choice Award for Female Movie Star of 2023

Nominated


People's Choice Award for Action Movie Star of 2023

Winner


2024

Saturn Award for Best Performance by a Younger Actor

Nominated

Trivia[]
Zegler and Josh Andrés Rivera were dating at the time they were in The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes. Rivera was also her co-star in West Side Story.
Zegler initially turned down the role of Lucy Gray because filming for Ballad would start only three days after she was set to wrap another shoot, and she was worried she would be lonely being away from home for so long. However, she changed her mind after Rivera auditioned and landed the role of Sejanus Plinth. Producers had no idea they were dating at the time he was cast.[4]
Before she was officially cast, director Francis Lawrence had her do a chemistry read with Tom Blyth over Zoom, and Lawrence asked her to sing a folk song called "Wildwood Flower". Tom was moved to tears by the performance.[5]
Her sister Jacklyn made a cameo during the District 12 reaping scene.[4]
External links[]
 Rachel Zegler on Wikipedia
 Rachel Zegler at the Internet Movie Database
 Rachel Zegler on Instagram
 Rachel Zegler on X
Official YouTube channel
References[]


↑ https://twitter.com/rachelzegler/status/1531244647510683649

↑ Dzurillay, Julia (July 1, 2022). Rachel Zegler Says She Received ‘Death Threats’ After Her Casting in ‘The Hunger Games’ Prequel. Showbiz Cheat Sheet. Retrieved on July 3, 2022.

↑ El-Mahmoud, Sarah (January 29, 2023). The Ballad Of Songbirds And Snakes Star Rachel Zegler Reveals Why She Originally Turned Down The Role In The Hunger Games Prequel. Cinema Blend. Retrieved on January 29, 2023.

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes audio commentary by Francis Lawrence and Nina Jacobson

↑ Predator or Prey: Making The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes







