

Reaper Ash


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute



	
		Home
	
	District 11



	
		Weapon
	
	PitchforkLong knife



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Dimitri Abold







"He might kill you now. He killed a Peacekeeper back in Eleven. They never found out who did it."
—Dill regarding Reaper.
Reaper Ash was the male tribute from District 11 in the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Clemensia Dovecote.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 10th Hunger Games
1.2 Death
1.3 Film adaptation


2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 Gallery
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was Reaper Ash's mentor in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Reaper Ash from District 11 was guided by his mentor, Clemensia Dovecote.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What significant act did Reaper Ash commit before the reaping?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Reaper Ash undertook the grim task of collecting the bodies of fallen tributes. His name, Reaper, is a nod to both the agricultural act of harvesting and the Grim Reaper, underscoring his role in the Games. His surname, Ash, signifies the remnants of a fire, alluding to the First Rebellion's aftermath. Additionally, he had a mutual bond with Dill, another tribute from District 11.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How was Reaper Ash transported from District 11 to the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						Reaper Ash traveled from District 11 to the Capitol using the Capitol's high-speed train system, capable of covering extensive distances in under a day. For aerial transit, hovercrafts are utilized, some specifically designed for passenger transport. Once in the Capitol, the Transfer, a network of tunnels, facilitates internal movement.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Reaper Ash become the male tribute for the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Reaper Ash, hailing from District 11, was chosen as the male tribute during the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games. Before this event, he had committed an undetected crime of killing a Peacekeeper.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Reaper being manhandled by a Peacekeeper at the reaping. 		 	 
Reaper grew up in District 11 and became his district's male tribute in the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1] Sometime before the reaping, Reaper killed a Peacekeeper, and nobody ever found out who did it.[2]
Along with the other tributes, he was transported from his district to the Capitol in a cattle car. After Coriolanus Snow got into a truck with the tributes in order to spend time with his own tribute, Lucy Gray Baird, Reaper taunted Coriolanus and pinned him to the bars, his fingers around the mentor's throat. Coriolanus was only released after driving his knee into Reaper's crotch. Soon after, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2]
During his interview session with Clemensia Dovecote, Reaper refused to utter a single word.[3] While at another mentor-tribute meeting, Reaper sat at his table with a stained bandage around his head, supposedly having been injured from the bombing in the Capitol Arena. However, he was alone, as his mentor had been taken ill earlier.[4]
The night before the Games, he spoke with the other tributes, apologizing to them personally for having to kill them and claiming that upon becoming victor, he would take revenge upon the Capitol. Most people merely stared at him, but Jessup Diggs spit in his eye, leading to him unknowingly contracting rabies.[5]

10th Hunger Games[]
Reaper was one of the few tributes to run for weaponry when the gong first went off, although by the time he positioned himself in a fighting stance, the area had already been cleared of other tributes. Frustrated, Reaper climbed into the stands, ready to hunt. Later that day, he emerged from a tunnel carrying Dill, his district partner, laying her down in the sun before her death from illness.[6]
After Jessup's death, Reaper appeared at the end of the arena and went to collect the remaining water bottles around him, though they were intended for Lucy Gray, who had fled.[7]
Later, Reaper cut a deal with the female tribute from District 7, Lamina, who had been sitting for long hours directly underneath the sun. He tore the Panem flag and tossed it up to her in exchange for food, though this led to objections, and his mentor doubted any sponsors would be willing to aid him following such a display. Reaper then withdrew behind the barricade when Lamina pointed out Coral, Mizzen and Tanner approaching. After Lamina was killed by the pack, Reaper made a makeshift morgue of all the tributes that had died in the arena so far, with the exception of Jessup (whose body he did collect later), and covered them with a second piece of the flag. He then took Lamina's flag remnant for himself, using it as a cape.[8]
After Wovey, the female tribute from District 8, died from Lucy Gray's poisoning, Reaper seemed suspicious as he examined her face. He suspected it was unnatural, and lined up Wovey with the other dead tributes as well, abandoning her food and water on the ground. When Dr. Volumnia Gaul released snake mutts into the arena to punish them for Gaius Breen's death, Reaper found refuge on the roof of the press box.[9]
The first time Clemensia sent Reaper food, he brushed it off, drinking water from a puddle instead. He descended from the press box and cut off another piece of flag, using it to cover Teslee and Mizzen after they had been added to his morgue. At this point, he was unsteady from lack of food and water, as well as the rabies he had contracted earlier.[10]

Death[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Reaper Ash 		 	 
When only she and Reaper remained, Lucy Gray went over to the body of Treech, the male tribute from District 7 whom she had just killed. She began to drag him to Reaper's morgue, but Reaper assumed the job himself. When he finished, Lucy Gray taunted Reaper by wreaking havoc upon the pieces of Panem's flag meant for covering the fallen tributes' corpses, moving them about aimlessly as he gave chase, insistent of keeping them covered. Aware of Jessup having previously spat at him, she purposely used the fact that Reaper had not eaten much for many days as a symptom of the rabies he had contracted to tire him out. With his attempts to give chase turning out to be futile, he desperately drank out of his puddle that, unbeknownst to him, had been contaminated with rat poison by Lucy Gray. Reaper barely made it to Treech's body before covering half of his form with the flag when his body gave out. It took the Gamemakers half an hour to fully acknowledge his passing, only doing so when Lucy Gray herself came out to check his pulse and, finding nothing, shut his eyelids.[10]

Film adaptation[]
Reaper first appeared during the reaping ceremony on the screen when his mentor, Clemensia Dovecote, was assigned to him. He got off at the platform with the other tributes before being taken to the Capitol Zoo. When Coriolanus Snow joined him and the rest of the other tributes inside the truck, Reaper taunted him and asked him if he was in the wrong cage before grabbing the boy and slamming him up against the wall of the truck, threatening to kill him. His district partner Dill claimed that he had killed a Peacekeeper back in District 11. Just before Reaper and the rest of the tributes were about to attack, Lucy Gray commented that if they killed Coriolanus the Capitol would kill their families and then them. He was dumped at the zoo along with the rest of the tributes and trapped in a cage where a news team and a few Capitol citizens gawked at them.
A few days later, the tributes were chained and brought to meet their mentors and talk strategy with them for the upcoming interviews and Games ahead. Reaper met his mentor, Clemensia, when she she sat down and attempted to talk to him, but he regarded her coldly and tried to attack her but was stopped by his chains, frightening the girl. When the tributes and their mentors went to scope out the arena, Reaper was left without his mentor as she had been bitten by a snake mutt. Reaper pulled Dill aside and told her to stick by him, allying himself with her.
When the gong rang, Reaper ran as fast as he could towards the pile of weapons, where he grabbed a sword and fought a couple of tributes. Seeing Dill scared, he decided to protect her when Circ appeared and attacked him. After escaping, Reaper and Dill observed the bloodbath until the scene was clear, then stayed in the tunnels for the rest of the day. However, Dill eventually walked away, and Reaper followed her only to find her lying on the ground. Reaper tried to help her, but discovered that she had been killed from drinking water poisoned by Lucy Gray Baird.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Reaper challenging the Capitol. 		 	 
Afterward, he decided to place all the corpses he could find under the broken beam in the arena. To cover them, he tore down the Panem flag, approaching the morgue that he had made and placing the flag over all the bodies. Suddenly, a drone appeared carrying a large tank, which it deposited in the middle of the sand. Seeing Wovey approaching the tank, Reaper warned her to stay away, but Wovey was killed as the tank released hundreds of deadly snakes. Rather than trying to fight them off, Reaper stayed completely still and allowed them to overcome him, placing 3rd.[11]

Physical description[]
Reaper was rangy, tall and muscular, with dark brown skin and patched burlap clothing.[2] After the bombing in the arena, Reaper had a bandage stained with dried, rusty blood wrapped around his head.[4] When he was ill from hunger in the Games, he became gaunt and unsteady, rocking back and forth.[10]

Etymology[]
His mentor, Clemensia, found his name quite ironic, given that he was reaped for the Hunger Games. However, Reaper's given name is just a farming name;[3] it refers to reaping, which is the cutting of grain for the harvest. His surname Ash refers to what is left behind by a fire, as in the aftermath of the First Rebellion. His first name is also reminiscent of the Grim Reaper, as he collected the bodies of the tributes after they died in the Games.

Trivia[]
His morning line odds has been shown to be 2-1, which is above Cato's 3-1 and the highest known in the film series.
Reaper could be seen having some sort of mutual bond with his fellow District 11 tribute, Dill. In the moments leading up to her death during the first day of the Games, Reaper carried her out of the tunnels and made a lackluster attempt of comforting her, ultimately leaving her be. Their relationship vaguely paralleled that of Thresh and Rue during the 74th Hunger Games.
Despite being one of the stronger tributes and armed with a weapon, Reaper did not make a single kill throughout the Games, instead using intimidation as a defense mechanism. Furthermore, he was the only tribute to stay in the main portion of the arena during the beginning of the Games.
He was one of only three tributes in the 10th Hunger Games whose last name was revealed. The others were the pair from District 12.
In the film adaptation, actor Dimitri Abold adlibbed Reaper fake-lunging at Clemensia during the tribute-mentor meeting. He ran this by director Francis Lawrence first, but Clemensia's actress, Ashley Liao, was not told ahead of time.[12]
Gallery[]
Reaper's face on the monitors.Concept art of Reaper and Dill's costumes.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 17

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ 10.0 10.1 10.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes audio commentary by Francis Lawrence and Nina Jacobson




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






