

Ringina

	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (50th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 7



	
		Weapon
	
	Throwing knives



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female





	
		Hair
	
	Black (book)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping (upcoming)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Tatyana Muzondo[1]





Ringina was one of two female tributes from District 7 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games.[2]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 50th Hunger Games
1.2 Death


2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Etymology
5 References



Biography[]
50th Hunger Games[]
Before the start of the Games, Ringina joined an alliance between District 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 & 12 tributes in an attempt to counter the Career pack. Ringina's district was the first to join the Newcomers alliance. Ringina and her district partners were considered "nothing special" by Haymitch.[3]
During training, the District 7 tributes were present at the knife throwing station taught by Hersilia. At one point, Ringina hit a bulls-eye, which Haymitch Abernathy complimented. Haymitch notes that he knew he wouldn't be able to kill her. Immediately afterward, Haymitch was punched by Panache Barker, who was then taken away by Peacekeepers. In their absence, Ringina and Haymitch both considered attacking the remaining Peacekeepers, but chose not to. Ringina returned her knife and checked to make sure Haymitch's ribs weren't broken.[3]
While discussing how they nearly attacked the Peacekeepers, Plutarch Heavensbee asked why they didn't. Ringina replied that they have the guns, but Plutarch questions whether it was really about that and brought up that the districts have more numbers than the Capitol. Later on, Haymitch introduced her to Wyatt Callow after District 12 decided to join the Newcomers alliance. While discussing the plan for the Newcomers to hunt down the Careers first, she asked what they do when they've killed them. Maysilee Donner told her they will have another meeting. Ringina was the first to suggest that the Newcomers needed a name.[4]
After the cannons sounded for the bloodbath, Haymitch worried that she would be one of the deceased. However, later that night, Haymitch watched the night sky reveal those who died on the first day of the Games and was relieved to see that Ringina survived the bloodbath.[5]

Death[]
Ringina made it into the top ten along with the other girl from her district, Autumn. They were killed by Careers Silka Sharp and Maritte in combat.[6] 

Physical description[]
Ringina was a slim girl with glossy, black braids. She wore small carved pin of a tree on her shirt as her tribute token.[3] The District 7 tributes' training outfits were russet brown.[4]

Personality and traits[]
The District 7 tributes are noted by Haymitch as being "confident, but not full of themselves". Ringina herself was shown to be a good sport and willing to work and practice training with the other tributes who were not from her district. She also showed concerned for Haymitch when he was ambushed and attacked by Panache. In addition, despite being a skilled fighter, Ringina wanted to fight Peacekeepers, but knew she couldn't, believing the Capitol to be stronger than the districts.[3]

Etymology[]
Ringina is a portmanteau of 'ring', referring to the rings of a tree, and the name 'Regina', meaning 'queen' in Latin.

References[]


↑ Post by the official Hunger Games account (July 15, 2025).

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 7

↑ 4.0 4.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 8

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 15

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White





