

Romulus Thread


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Middle aged



	
		Occupation
	
	Head Peacekeeper



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Weapon
	
	Whip
Gun



	
		Fate
	
	Unknown (presumed deceased)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Portrayed by
	
	Patrick St. Esprit





Romulus Thread became the new Head Peacekeeper of District 12, replacing Cray. He was also the last Head Peacekeeper of District 12 prior to the Second Rebellion.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Etymology
5 Gallery

5.1 Catching Fire


6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What actions did Romulus Thread take to enforce the law in District 12?
						
				
				
					
						Romulus Thread assumed control as District 12's peacekeeper commander, ending the prior leniency. He enforced strict laws, including hunting and black market trade prohibitions, previously overlooked. Thread regularly conducted public executions and whippings, and imposed a curfew with a shoot-on-sight policy for violators.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who did Romulus Thread replace as the Head Peacekeeper of District 12?
						
				
				
					
						Romulus Thread succeeded Cray as the Head Peacekeeper of District 12. His tenure was marked by a harsh, brutal regime, with regular public executions and whippings, and a strict crackdown on hunting and black market trade.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the cause of Romulus Thread's death?
						
				
				
					
						Romulus Thread's death isn't explicitly detailed. However, indications suggest a possible execution by the Capitol, attributed to his brutal regime involving public executions, whippings, and stringent restrictions on hunting and black market trade in District 12.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Romulus Thread's victim of brutal beating upon his arrival in District 12?
						
				
				
					
						Romulus Thread, a merciless Peacekeeper commander, initiated a severe regime in District 12. He regularly executed and whipped citizens, and strictly controlled hunting and black market activities. Gale was severely flogged by Thread as a penalty for poaching.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Was Romulus Thread born and raised in District 2 like most Peacekeepers?
						
				
				
					
						Romulus Thread's birthplace and upbringing are not detailed. He gained notoriety as the Head Peacekeeper of District 12, succeeding Cray. His tenure, marked by a brutal regime, ended with the Second Rebellion. His rule was characterized by public executions, whippings, and a crackdown on hunting and black market trade.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Thread's early life is unknown, but he had most likely been born and raised in District 2, like most Peacekeepers.[1] Harsh and unforgiving, Thread replaced Cray and was ready to enforce the law, no matter what. 
Upon arrival, Thread brutally beat Gale Hawthorne, who had been caught poaching a wild turkey (or for tackling Thread and stopping him from attacking an elderly woman in the film). Although Gale had been selling meat to the Peacekeepers of District 12 for years, they turned a blind eye to this illegal poaching, since they were his best customers. Gale went to sell the turkey to Cray when he unexpectedly found Thread at Cray's house. Thread saw Gale's poaching as a flogging offense and put him under immediate arrest, bringing him to the square and beginning a public whipping after forcing Gale to plead guilty. Darius tried to intervene after about twenty lashes by grabbing Thread's arm but was struck in the head, knocking him unconscious. Upon first seeing Gale, Katniss yelled for Thread to stop, but was instead whipped across the cheek. Purnia later intervened in a more official manner, and Thread finally stopped. After that display of cruelty, people fled home before nightfall rather than risk incurring the wrath of the new band of Peacekeepers, including Katniss.[2]
During the blizzard, Thread hung a flag of Panem off the roof of the Justice Building and lined up Peacekeepers to march around the square and be ready with machine guns on the rooftops. He also set up new devices to punish citizens in the center of the square.[3]
A few days after the blizzard, Katniss crept out of her house and headed to the woods, where she met Bonnie and Twill. Upon her return, she found Peacekeepers sent by Thread to deliver a message that the fences would now be electrified 24/7.[4] After the Reaping for the 75th Hunger Games, Thread ushered Peeta Mellark and Katniss out the back door of the Justice Building without giving them a chance to say goodbye to their loved ones.[5]
When the Capitol firebombed District 12, he was transported out along with the other Peacekeepers in the district. Thread's current status is unknown, as he is not mentioned afterward. He was most likely either killed during the Second Rebellion, or was captured, tried, and executed by the rebel forces afterwards.

Physical description[]
Thread was a tall, muscular man with sharp creases in his pants.[6] His face was hard, with deep lines and a cruel mouth. His gray hair was completely shaved, and his eyes were black. Thread had a long, straight nose and a commanding voice with an accent that Katniss found odd.[2]

Personality and traits[]

"She interrupted the punishment of a confessed criminal."
—Thread after Katniss Everdeen stepped in to save Gale Hawthorne from further whipping[src]
Romulus Thread was a ruthless, pitiless, violent, unstable, and sadistic peacekeeper commander. He was also cruel and vicious and carried out his orders without mercy and without compassion, making him somewhat of a sociopath. He had no qualms about harming or killing anyone who stood in his way. Thread was an idealistic, angry, and powerful man who seemed to terrify everyone with his mere presence no matter where it takes place. He was also very aggressive and declared that anyone caught breaking the curfew he organized in District 12 "will be shot on sight".

Etymology[]
In Roman mythology, Romulus was the founder and first king of Rome. His surname, Thread, could be meant as in a story thread: a continued idea or theme, because he brings the harsh subjugation seen in other districts back to District 12.

Gallery[]
Catching Fire[]
Thread and other Peacekeepers detaining District 12 citizens.Gale's whipping.Thread punching Katniss when she interferes during the whipping.Thread with his gun.Thread threatens both Katniss and Haymitch.Thread ordering the curfew.
References[]


↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 6

↑ 2.0 2.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 8

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 9

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 11

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 13

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 7






