

Rory Hawthorne

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12 (Catching Fire)[1]12-13 {Mockingjay)



	
		Occupation
	
	Student



	
		Home
	
	The Seam in District 12District 13 (briefly)



	
		Relatives
	
	Hazelle Hawthorne (mother)Mr. Hawthorne (father)Gale Hawthorne (older brother)Vick Hawthorne (younger brother)Posy Hawthorne (younger sister)



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	The Hunger Games





Rory Hawthorne is the second-oldest child in the Hawthorne family and the brother of Gale, Vick, and Posy.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Physical description
3 Family
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References



Biography[]
He lives in the Seam of District 12 with his family of five, and is around the same age as Katniss Everdeen's sister Primrose. He was 12 years old when Katniss left for her and Peeta Mellark's Victory Tour.[1]
Before the 75th Hunger Games, Rory was too young to work and had not yet learned the art of hunting. During the food shortage when Gale and Hazelle were unable to work, he took out tesserae to help support the family, much to Gale's displeasure.[2] Katniss wanted to try teaching Rory how to hunt, as Gale had no time to teach his brother himself.[1]
He and his family were among the few people who survived the bombing of District 12, and they were evacuated to District 13.[3]

Physical description[]
Rory has the same olive skin tone, grey eyes, and dark hair like many other typical of residents of the Seam.

Family[]
Rory has three siblings: Vick Hawthorne, Gale Hawthorne, and his only sister, Posy Hawthorne. His father died in a mine explosion along with Katniss Everdeen's father, five years prior to the start of The Hunger Games trilogy. During the 74th Hunger Games, the Hawthornes are referred to as cousins of the Everdeens in order to invalidate a relationship between Gale Hawthorne and Katniss Everdeen.
Rory's mother, Hazelle Hawthorne, raised her children by herself since her husband's death when Rory was six or seven.[1]

Etymology[]
The name Rory comes from Gaelic: "ruadh" meaning red, and "rígh" meaning king. His surname comes from hawthorn bushes or trees, but could also be a reference to author Nathaniel Hawthorne.

Trivia[]
All four Hawthorne siblings have four-letter names: Gale, Rory, Vick, and Posy.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Catching Fire, Chapter 1

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 9

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 1





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2






