

Ryan

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12-18 (50th Hunger Games)



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (50th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 9



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping







"Their faces still healing from their last sunburn from home. Their calloused, capable hands. Their lean, muscled arms. Their quiet efficiency. Even without Beetee’s directive, I can see they’d make good allies."
—Haymitch Abernathy describing the District 9 tributes.[src]
Ryan was one of two male tributes from District 9 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games.[1]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 50th Hunger Games


2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References



Biography[]
50th Hunger Games[]
Before the start of the Games, Beetee Latier noticed the sunflower necklace tokens that everyone from Ryan's district had. He instructed Haymitch to get them to join the Newcomers as they could use these tokens for their plan to sabotage the arena. Haymitch Abernathy thought their efficiency and capabilities would make them good allies.[2] 
While training in the shelter booth, Panache Barker went up to either Ryan or Clayton and offered them a chance to join the Careers pack but he refused. Panache grabbed one of their tokens and broke it in retaliation. Maysilee Donner fixed it and Ryan, along with the rest of 9, decided to join the Newcomers alliance.[2] They weren't very sociable and almost appeared exclusive.[3]
Ryan died in the initial bloodbath along with everyone else in his district.[4] Ampert retrieved two of their tokens.[5]  

Physical description[]
The District 9 tributes' training outfits were buttery yellow, which reminded Haymitch Abernathy of baby chicks.[6] Like the rest of his district, Ryan was still healing from sunburn, had calloused hands and lean, muscled arms.[2]

Personality and traits[]
Ryan wasn't very sociable and liked to keep to himself.[3]

Etymology[]
Ryan is an Anglicization of the Old Irish name 'Rían'. The exact meaning of this name is uncertain, but it is often explained as meaning 'little king'. However, in this case Ryan was chosen as it sounds similar to rye, a plant grown for its grain.

Trivia[]
Ryan, along with Alpheus, Janus, Nona, Lect, Coil, Bircher, Heartwood, Clayton, Midge, and all of Districts 5 and 8, is only named on the tribute board.
References[]


↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 11

↑ 3.0 3.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 13

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 16

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 18

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 7




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White





