

Sabyn


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12-18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 2



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Yuli Lam







"Both pairs from Districts 1 and 2 had made for the hole blown open near the entrance. ...The girl from 2 had made it to the river and leaped over the wall, only to die in the fall."
—Coriolanus Snow describing Sabyn's death.[src]
Sabyn was the female tribute from District 2 in the 10th Hunger Games. Her mentor was Florus Friend.[1] When bombs exploded during a tour of the arena, she attempted to flee but was killed.[2]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death
1.2 Film adaptation


2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What district did Sabyn represent in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Sabyn represented District 2 as the female tribute. Her mentor during this time was Florus Friend. Unfortunately, she met her demise due to injuries sustained from a fall.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Sabyn die during the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Sabyn, a participant in the 10th Hunger Games, lost her life while trying to flee the arena during an explosion. The cause of death is speculated to be a fatal fall. Posthumously, her body was displayed on Scholars Road at Apollo and Diana Ring's funeral. In the film, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, her death is attributed to the initial explosion.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Sabyn's mentor in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Sabyn, a tribute from District 2, was under the guidance of Florus Friend. Her participation in the games ended tragically due to injuries from a fall.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What happened to Sabyn during the tour of the Capitol Arena?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, during a Capitol Arena tour, rebels detonated multiple bombs. Sabyn, with other District 1 and 2 tributes, tried to escape. She reached the river, surpassing Facet and Velvereen, but died from a fall after jumping over a wall. Her body was subsequently paraded on a horse.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Sabyn grew up in District 2 and became her district's female tribute in the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1]
Along with the other tributes, Sabyn was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[3]

Death[]
During a tour of the Capitol Arena, several explosions planted by the rebels were detonated. The bombs exploded a large hole near the entrance of the arena, and through the chaos, each tribute from District 1 and District 2 made a run for it. Sabyn made it to the river, farther than Facet and Velvereen had, but leaped over the wall only to die in the fall. Her body was later tied to a horse and dragged down Scholars Road during Apollo and Diana Ring's funeral.[2]

Film adaptation[]
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Sabyn isn't seen escaping with Marcus or shot down by Peacekeepers alongside Facet and Velvereen. Because of this, it can be speculated that she died in the initial explosion.[4]

Etymology[]
Sabyn's name may be a reference to the Sabines, an ancient Italian people situated near Rome, whose society existed during Roman times. Legend has it that the Romans abducted Sabine women to help populate Rome; this is analogous to how Sabyn was reaped by the Capitol to compete in the Games.

Trivia[]
Despite being reaped, Sabyn never competed in the 10th Hunger Games.
She was implied to be one of the stronger tributes, as Coriolanus Snow repeatedly mentioned throughout the book that with the deaths of the District 1 and 2 tributes, Lucy Gray's odds of winning significantly increase.
Gallery[]
Sabyn and Otto sitting in the Capitol Zoo.Sabyn and Marcus walking into the Capitol Arena.Sabyn's face on the monitors.Concepts for Sabyn and Marcus' costumes.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





