

Santino Fontana


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Santino Anthony Fontana



	
		Character
	
	Coriolanus Snow (audiobook narration)



	
		Birthday
	
	March 21, 1982



	
		Birthplace
	
	Stockton, California, U.S.A



	
		Appearance
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes audiobook (narrator)



	
		Years active
	
	2010–present



Santino Fontana is an American-born Italian/Spanish/Portuguese actor who narrated The Hunger Games prequel book The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. He has previously narrated titles such as Stephen King's The Institute, for which he won he won the 2020 Audie award for Best Thriller/Suspense title.[1]
In addition to his work in audiobooks, Fontana is an actor of film, television, and stage. He is known for film roles such as the voice of Prince Hans of the Southern Isles in Disney's Frozen and Rich in the film Impossible Monsters. His television work has included the role of Mozart in the series Mozart in the Jungle and Greg Serrano in Crazy Ex-Girlfriend.[2] As a stage actor, he won a Tony Award for his role in the play Tootsie.[1]
Regarding his recording of The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Fontana stated that he was surrounded by the security-level for the title. He stated that "I’ve never done anything this top secret in my life, and I was in Frozen! They installed a safe in my apartment and an iPad that had been manipulated so that there was no Wi-Fi. It had nothing else but the book on it. I had to keep the iPad in the safe and tell nobody." He stated further that every e-mail he received regarding the title from author Suzanne Collins contained no details of the story's plot and was simply about character names and pronunciations. He was told "We'll see you in the studio!"
He has not read the original The Hunger Games trilogy, but considers himself a big fan of the movie versions. He was chosen for the role of reading the audiobook by Suzanne Collins's editor David Levithan, who saw him perform in the play Sons of the Prophet and reached out to Fontana's agents.[3]

External links[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Santino Fontana holding a copy of The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes 		 	 
 Santino Fontana on X
 Santino Fontana on Wikipedia
 Santino Fontana at the Internet Movie Database
Playbill profile
Entertainment Weekly - Santino Fontana teases his recording of The Hunger Games prequel audiobook

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 Gans, Andrew (April 8, 2020). Tony Winner Santino Fontana Will Narrate Audio Edition of The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Hunger Games Prequel. Playbill. Retrieved on April 10, 2020.

↑ * Santino Fontana at the Internet Movie Database

↑ Santino Fontana teases his recording of The Hunger Games prequel audiobook. Entertainment Weekly (May 18, 2020). Retrieved on May 18, 2020.




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





