

Seeder


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15-18 (at victory)Around 60, 57-62 (75th Hunger Games)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor (31st-33rd)
Tribute (75th Hunger Games)[1]



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 11



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Maria Howell







"The woman, Seeder, looks almost like she could be from the Seam, with her olive skin and straight black hair streaked with silver. Only her golden brown eyes mark her as from another district. She must be around sixty, but she still looks strong, and there’s no sign she’s turned to liquor or morphling or any form of chemical escape over the years."
—Katniss Everdeen[src]
Seeder was the female tribute from District 11 in the 75th Hunger Games, and she was the victor of an unspecified Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Chariot rides
1.1.2 Training
1.1.3 Interviews
1.1.4 Death




2 Physical description

2.1 Film adaptation


3 Personality
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was Seeder's district partner in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games, Seeder, a victor from District 11, was partnered with Chaff. They were both previous Hunger Games victors and were involved in the alliance to protect Katniss, as disclosed by Haymitch in Catching Fire.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Seeder manage to cope with the traumas of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Seeder, a victor in the Hunger Games, dealt with the associated traumas without the use of alcohol or drugs, unlike many other victors. She maintained her health and strength post-victory. In the 75th Hunger Games or third Quarter Quell, she was selected with her district partner, Chaff. Seeder was also part of the rebellion's alliance to protect Katniss, demonstrating her resilience and dedication to the cause.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Seeder's relationship with Katniss in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Seeder was a motherly figure to Katniss Everdeen. Her strong opposition to the Quarter Quell and her confidence during training made Katniss consider her as an ally. Despite this, Katniss chose not to have allies due to her growing closeness to the competitors. Seeder was among the 12 victors privy to the rebellion and part of the alliance to protect Katniss. Seeder's death caused great sorrow to Katniss.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Which Hunger Games did Seeder win?
						
				
				
					
						Seeder, a tribute from District 11 in the 75th Hunger Games, emerged victorious in an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games. She was among the 12 victors privy to the rebellion and was part of the alliance formed to protect Katniss.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Seeder interact with other victors of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Seeder, a victor of an unspecified Hunger Games and the female tribute from District 11 in the 75th Hunger Games, was part of a secret alliance formed by Haymitch. This alliance, which included 12 victors aware of the rebellion, aimed to protect Katniss and Peeta. Seeder's motherly nature made her a desired ally for Katniss.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
After winning her first Games, she remained strong and healthy; if she experienced the kinds of physical or mental traumas felt by other victors, she was apparently able to cope without alcohol or drugs.[1]

75th Hunger Games[]
She was reaped for the third Quarter Quell alongside her district partner Chaff.[1]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Seeder's chariot costume 		 	 
Chariot rides[]
Seeder embraced Katniss after the chariot rides, assuring her that both Thresh's and Rue's families were safe,[1] as the uprising had started in District 11 during the Victory Tour that followed the 74th Hunger Games[2][3].

Training[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss, Peeta and Seeder waiting their private sessions 		 	 
During the time between training and the opening to the Quarter Quell, Katniss decided she wanted Seeder as her ally in the arena, but overall decided against having allies as she was getting too close to the other competitors, thinking she wouldn't be able to kill them in the end to ensure Peeta's victory. Katniss originally wanted Seeder as an alliance as well as Mags, Cecelia, Beetee, and Wiress, however, she was not too sure whether she wanted to be in an alliance with Chaff as well.[4] 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Seeder's interview dress 		 	 
Interviews[]
During Seeder's interview with Caesar Flickerman, she quietly talked about how the people of District 11 all think President Snow is all-powerful and asked, "If he is so powerful why couldn't he just change the Quell?"[5] Seeder, along with every other victor, held hands after the interviews as a sign of solidarity, that Snow interpreted as a rebellion[6].
In the film, she wore a light brown dress that reached her shins and wore small brown boots[7].

Death[]
Seeder was killed in the initial Cornucopia bloodbath on the first day of the Games[8]. Like many of the other tributes, she ran for supplies. Upon arrival, she was not able to reunite with the Rebels Alliance, and was killed by Cashmere. She placed around 17th-23rd.
Katniss was dismayed by her death and grieves for her, the male morphling, and Cecelia later that night[8].

At the end of Catching Fire, when Katniss flies towards District 13, Haymitch revealed that Seeder was one of the 12 victors who knew of the rebellion and was part of the alliance to save Katniss[9]. 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Death portrait in the sky. 		 	 
Physical description[]
Seeder had olive skin, straight black hair streaked with silver, and golden brown eyes. Katniss thought that aside from her eyes, she looked like she came from the Seam. She appeared to be about 60 years old in Catching Fire. Katniss took to her not only because she was kind and gentle as a person, but because she ultimately reminded her of Rue.[1]

Film adaptation[]
In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, Seeder had dark skin like the majority of people from District 11, and she had short, curly black hair[7].

Personality[]

"They’re safe."
—Seeder reassuring Katniss on Thresh and Rue’s family[src]
Seeder was a very kind, polite, gentle and positive woman. The first thing Seeder did when she saw Katniss was whisper in her ear that Thresh and Rue's families were safe, which gave Katniss relief. Seeder was friendly to Katniss and ate with her during lunch during training. She also seemed to be confident[1]; During her interview, she strongly and quietly stated that the Quarter Quell was wrong and President Snow could stop it if he wanted[5]. Seeder was very motherly as well, all of which prompted Katniss to want her as an ally.

Trivia[]
Seeder does not have any lines in the film and only nods curtly to Katniss and Peeta instead of embracing Katniss and speaking with her. Her interview with Caesar is not shown either[7].
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 4

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 5

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ 5.0 5.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 17

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ 8.0 8.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 20

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 27





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





