

Shamus

	Biographical Information


	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (presumed)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Mentioned
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes







"She's our goat. Don't be fooled by the boy's name; she can give a gallon a day when she's fresh. We're trying to skim enough cream for butter, but it takes forever."
—Description of Shamus by Maude Ivory[src]
Shamus was the goat that belonged to the Covey.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					How much milk can Shamus produce in a day?
						
				
				
					
						Shamus is capable of producing up to a gallon of milk daily. The Covey aimed to skim cream for butter, but goat's milk, such as Shamus's, doesn't separate like cow's milk. Sejanus mentioned that Shamus's milk evoked memories of his childhood in District 2.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why is the goat named Shamus despite being female?
						
				
				
					
						Shamus, a female goat, has a traditionally male name. The name Shamus is an alternate spelling of Seamus, which is a variation of James. In the book, Shamus is one of two named female goats, the other being Lady, owned by Primrose Everdeen.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What role does Shamus play in the Covey's daily life?
						
				
				
					
						Shamus is a cow in the Covey's daily life, requiring regular milking. During a visit by Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth to the Covey's home in District 12, Shamus was in the Meadow with Lucy Gray Baird. After Coriolanus and Lucy Gray interacted, Maude Ivory took Sejanus to milk Shamus.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
When Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth first visited the Covey's home in District 12, Shamus was in the Meadow with Lucy Gray Baird. After Coriolanus and Lucy Gray kissed, Shamus tugged on Coriolanus's collar, as she needed milking. Lucy Gray then hitched Shamus to a post on the front post to keep her in place.[1] However, Maude Ivory took Sejanus out to milk Shamus instead, as she disapproved of Sejanus talking to Billy Taupe.[2]
Shamus was said to be able to give a gallon of milk a day at her best, and the members of the Covey were attempting to skim enough cream for butter.[1] Tam Amber created a butter churn for Maude Ivory's birthday, but the Covey weren't sure if it would work, since goat's milk didn't separate the same way cow milk did. Sejanus also stated that Shamus's milk reminded him of his childhood in District 2.[2]

Etymology[]
Shamus is noted in the book as being a boy's name.[1] It's an alternate spelling of the name Seamus, which is a variation of James.

Trivia[]
Shamus is one of two named goats in the books, both female; the other goat is Lady, belonging to Primrose Everdeen.
Her name has the same root as Haymitch Abernathy's: Hamish is also a variation of Seamus or James.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 25






