

Sheaf


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 9



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Jona Marie Laux







"The tributes began to compete for attention, drawing the cameras to the center of the stage. A limber little girl from District 9 did a back handspring after she received a bread roll."
—Coriolanus Snow describing Sheaf performing for The Capitol citizens to get food.[src]
Sheaf was the female tribute from District 9 in the 10th Hunger Games. She was treated by a veterinarian after an incident with her district partner, Panlo, and her mentor, Androcles Anderson, but eventually succumbed to her wounds.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death

1.1.1 Film adaptation




2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References



Biography[]
Sheaf grew up in District 9 and became her district's female tribute in the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1]
Along with the other tributes, Sheaf was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2] While in the monkey enclosure, it was mentioned that Sheaf was "a limber little girl" and performed a back handspring to receive food from the Capitol citizens that were watching.[3]

Death[]
Before the start of the Games, the tributes and their mentors were taken on a tour of the Capitol Arena. During the tour, rebel bombs exploded, heavily injuring the District 9 duo and their mentors. Sheaf was denied hospital care, in spite of repeated requests made by the veterinarian. Unlike Otto and Ginnee, the two tributes from District 6, Sheaf managed to survive a little longer, but eventually succumbed to her wounds. 
Her body was later draped on the back of a horse and paraded down Scholars Road during Apollo and Diana Ring's funeral.[4]

Film adaptation[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Otto shooting Sheaf with a crossbow. 		 	 
Sheaf survived the bombing and was instead killed in the bloodbath by Otto. When the gong rang, she initially tried to go to the pile of weapons, but decided to flee in another direction, being chased by Otto. She tried to find a way out, but Otto grabbed a crossbow and shot her in the leg, then the back. Sheaf placed 18th.[5]

Etymology[]
A sheaf is a bundle of grains tied together after they are harvested.

Trivia[]
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Sheaf's odds of winning were 20–1 and she received 107 donations.
Gallery[]
Sheaf's face on the monitors.Concept photos of Panlo and Sheaf's outfits.Sheaf behind the scenes
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





