

Smiley


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Peacekeeper



	
		Home
	
	District 8 (originally)District 12




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Carl Spencer







"Peacekeeping's good work if you can get it. Better than mill work. Lots of food, and money enough to send back to my folks. Some people sneer at it, but I say the war's history and a job's a job."
—Smiley's opinion on Peacekeeper work[src]
Smiley was a male individual who enlisted in the Peacekeepers. He was originally born in District 8, but was assigned to work in District 12. He disliked the idea of working the textile mills that District 8 was known for, hence his decision to enroll in the Peacekeepers. He was a highly outgoing individual and considered his bunkmates his family.[1] 

Biography[]
Smiley had a history of selling things at the black market back in District 8.[2]
At the time that Coriolanus Snow enrolled in the Peacekeepers following the 10th Hunger Games, Smiley had only been enlisted for a week, but already seemed to have the routine down pat. He had become friends with Bug, his bunkmate.
Upon meeting Coriolanus and Junius, Smiley declared the group fast friends and gave them each nicknames. It was likely that "Smiley" was, itself, a nickname. He introduced Snow and the other new Peacekeepers to the Hob in District 12 and often distracted them with his constant chatter.[1]  
Smiley was disappointed when he learned that Peacekeepers were required to serve for a month before collecting their first paycheck, having counted on the money for a night of revelry at the Hob. He was therefore cheered when Sejanus Plinth joined the group and his mother, Mrs. Plinth sent presents of food, which Sejanus shared with the group. Smiley suggested to set aside some of the bounty to trade for drinks during the Covey's performance at the Hob, and the others agreed.[3] 
At the clinic, Smiley met a nurse who told him of what was going on around the district. He told his bunkmates that Arlo Chance had been arrested for three murders in the mines and was to be hanged that afternoon.[3] Although Coriolanus and Sejanus attended, Smiley did not, and was eager to hear about what had happened.[2] 
During his first visit to the Hob to watch the Covey perform, Smiley broke one or Mrs. Plinth's cookies into a dozen pieces for others to sample and trade for, having learned the strategy from dealing in the black market back in District 8. They ended up with a bottle of white liquor, which the bunkmates shared with one another.[2] Because of his skill in trading, Smiley ended up as the group's treasurer.[4] 
The morning after Mayfair Lipp and Billy Taupe's murders, Smiley learned of their identities by speaking to his nurse friend again and informed his bunkmates about what had happened, though he didn't know that Coriolanus and Sejanus had been involved with the murders firsthand. He later let the others know that Spruce had died during the night, and after Sejanus was arrested, led his group in confronting the sergeant at target practice that Sejanus hadn't committed the murders. However, Sejanus was hanged for his rebellious plans.[5] 
Coriolanus remained in contact with Smiley after Dr. Volumnia Gaul manipulated his return to the Capitol via an honorable discharge to attend the University. Smiley wrote him a letter informing him that Lucy Gray Baird had disappeared, and was rumored to have been killed by Mayor Lipp, who suspected her of murdering his daughter. He also told Coriolanus that their commander, Commander Hoff, had been replaced by a new commander who had outlawed the Covey's performances at the Hob, because music caused trouble.[6]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 21

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 23

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 26

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue






