

Sol


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 5



	
		Weapon
	
	Knife (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Samia Hofmann







"Her name was Sol, or maybe Sal. She had a funny accent. Not much more to tell."
—Iphigenia Moss describing Sol.[src]
Sol was the female tribute from District 5 during the 10th Hunger Games. Her mentor was Iphigenia Moss.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death

1.1.1 Film adaptation




2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 Gallery
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Sol play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Sol represented District 5 as a female tribute. Her mentor was Iphigenia Moss. On the second day of the games, she was pursued by an alliance of tributes - Coral and Mizzen from District 4, and Tanner from District 10. Her life was ended by Coral, who used a trident to spear her in the throat.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Sol's mentor during the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Sol, the tribute from District 5 in the 10th Hunger Games, was guided by her mentor, Iphigenia Moss. Moss offered crucial support to Sol, notably by supplying her with food during the competition.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How was Sol chosen as the female tribute from District 5?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Sol was chosen as District 5's female tribute through the Reaping. She was transported to the Capitol in unsanitary conditions and kept at the Capitol Zoo. Her mentor was Iphigenia Moss.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Sol's experience like in the Capitol before the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Before the 10th Hunger Games, Sol was transported from District 5 to the Capitol in unsanitary conditions. She was placed in the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo, a harsh environment. Iphigenia Moss, her mentor, provided her with food. Sol faced adversity and fear as she was targeted by an alliance of other tributes.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What strategies did Sol use during the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Sol's strategy involved ascending the bleachers in the Capitol Arena, while receiving food from her mentor, Iphigenia Moss. Despite this, she was pursued and eventually caught by an alliance comprising tributes from District 4 and District 10, leading to her demise at the hands of Coral.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hy and Sol chasing Lucy Gray and Jessup Diggs. 		 	 
Sol grew up in District 5 and became her district's female tribute in the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1]
Along with the other tributes, Sol was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2]

Death[]
On the afternoon of the second day, Sol began to climb the bleachers at the furthest end of the Capitol Arena. As her mentor, Iphigenia Moss, sent her food, an alliance comprised of Coral and Mizzen, the two tributes from District 4, and Tanner, the male tribute from District 10, chased her down. After a brief chase, they caught up with her, and Coral speared Sol through the throat with a trident.[3]

Film adaptation[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sol yelling at Lucy Gray and Jessup Diggs. 		 	 
Sol was killed in the bloodbath by Coral. When the gong rang, she ran to the pile of weapons and grabbed a knife. Sol was trying to avoid the other tributes' weapons when she saw Treech trying to kill Lucy Gray Baird. She threw a knife that wounded Treech in the arm and another at Lucy Gray, who dodged it. Sol then attempted to leave, but saw Hy being chased by Otto, and they escaped to the tunnels. When they were further inside, they saw Lucy Gray and Jessup Diggs, but the tributes managed to get behind a door before Sol and Hy could kill them. Coral's alliance then appeared. Mizzen killed Hy. Sol, who was shouting at Lucy Gray, was impaled by Coral's trident and dragged back through the door. She placed 14th.[4]

Physical description[]
Coriolanus Snow described Sol as a rickety little thing. Sol also had what her mentor thought was a "funny accent", making her speech harder to comprehend.[3]

Etymology[]
“Sol” translates to the word sun in Latin. As such, her name may come from the term solar power, referring to her district's industry.

Trivia[]
Sol is the only tribute who survived to see the Games who did not receive a sponsor gift besides Marcus, who died thirty minutes within the Games start.
Sol was described by her mentor as having a "funny accent" and that her name was either "Sol" or "Sal."
Sol is the third female tribute from District 5 in the series to outlive her male counterpart, similar to Foxface and the District 5 female from the 75th Hunger Games.
Gallery[]
Sol's face on the monitor.Concept photos of Hy and Sol's outfits.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





