Various songs appear and are mentioned throughout The Hunger Games trilogy. Music, in general, holds importance for many characters: Katniss Everdeen's father was renowned for his singing voice and taught many songs to his daughter; Rue described music as her favorite thing in the world, and music often plays a part in celebrations or important events throughout Panem.
Music is prominent in the prequel novel The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, in which the character Lucy Gray Baird is a member of a performing group known as the Covey. She performs a number of songs throughout the novel. Several songs also play a role in Sunrise on the Reaping.

Contents

1 Featured songs in the trilogy

1.1 "Deep in the Meadow"

1.1.1 Lyrics
1.1.2 Media


1.2 "The Hanging Tree"

1.2.1 Origin
1.2.2 Lyrics
1.2.3 Media


1.3 Mentioned songs

1.3.1 "Anthem"
1.3.2 "Rue's four-note song"
1.3.3 "Mouse song"
1.3.4 "District 4 wedding song"




2 Featured songs in The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes

2.1 "Gem of Panem"

2.1.1 Lyrics
2.1.2 Media


2.2 "Nothing You Can Take From Me"

2.2.1 Lyrics
2.2.2 Media


2.3 "The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird"

2.3.1 Lyrics
2.3.2 Media


2.4 "The Old Therebefore"

2.4.1 Lyrics
2.4.2 Media


2.5 "That Thing I Love With"

2.5.1 Lyrics


2.6 "Lucy Gray"

2.6.1 Lyrics
2.6.2 Media


2.7 "I'll Sell You For a Song"

2.7.1 Lyrics


2.8 "Pure As The Driven Snow"

2.8.1 Lyrics
2.8.2 Media


2.9 "The Valley Song"

2.9.1 Lyrics


2.10 Other minor songs


3 Songs in Sunrise on the Reaping

3.1 "The Goose and the Common"

3.1.1 Lyrics


3.2 Wiress' Song

3.2.1 Lyrics


3.3 "Ah! Sun-flower"

3.3.1 Lyrics


3.4 District 11 Harvest Song

3.4.1 Lyrics


3.5 Ladybug, Ladybug

3.5.1 Lyrics


3.6 The Raven

3.6.1 Lyrics


3.7 Other minor songs


4 Trivia
5 References



Featured songs in the trilogy[]
"Deep in the Meadow"[]
"Deep in the Meadow" (also known as "Rue's Lullaby") is a song sung by Katniss to Rue as the latter was nearing death (Marvel had speared her in the stomach)[1]. Because of her love of music[2], Rue's last request was to hear Katniss sing. At first, Katniss did not know what to sing, but then remembered a lullaby she would sing to her sister Prim when she was ill. The words are easy, soothing, and calming.[1]
Katniss also found herself musing on the words of this song many years later as she watched her own children play in the Meadow in District 12.[3]
In The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Lucy Gray Baird sings this song to Maude Ivory, having sung it to her in the past when she had croup. Coriolanus Snow also listens to the song and finds it soothing, until mockingjays pick up the melody, as he finds them disturbing.[4]

Lyrics[]

Deep in the meadow, under the willow

A bed of grass, a soft green pillow

Lay down your head, and close your sleepy eyes

And when again they open, the sun will rise.



Here it's safe, here it's warm

Here the daisies guard you from every harm

Here your dreams are sweet and tomorrow brings them true

Here is the place where I love you.



Deep in the meadow, hidden far away

A cloak of leaves, a moonbeam ray

Forget your woes and let your troubles lay

And when again it's morning, they'll wash away.



Here it's safe, here it's warm

Here the daisies guard you from every harm

Here your dreams are sweet and tomorrow brings them true

Here is the place where I love you.


Media[]
 	  	 	 			   	 	 		 			 		 		 			"Deep In the Meadow" by Sting 		 		 			Official version of Rue's Lullaby, performed by Sting (released as downloadable bonus track) 		 	 
An official version of "Deep in the Meadow" was recorded for The Hunger Games film by English musician Sting. Jennifer Lawrence, who portrayed Katniss in the film series, recorded a version of the song for the soundtrack of The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2.


"The Hanging Tree"[]
Main article: The Hanging Tree (song)
"The Hanging Tree" was a song Katniss learned from her father when she was young, but Mrs. Everdeen forbid them from singing it because of the song's morbid and rebellious lyrics. Katniss would not sing the song again for another ten years, when she sang it for Pollux.[5]
In The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1, the song was surreptitiously recorded for a propo, and Plutarch Heavensbee had the words changed from "necklace of rope" to "necklace of hope". After the propo aired, rebels took it up as a protest song as they blew up the hydroelectric dam in District 5, causing a massive power outage in the Capitol that allowed rebel forces to carry out a rescue mission.[6]

Origin[]
"The Hanging Tree" has a brief backstory in The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. It was one of many songs composed by Lucy Gray Baird, and it was written about the execution of Arlo Chance at the real hanging tree.[7][8] The song was banned by Commander Hoff, who considered it rebellious.[9] Soon after, Hoff was replaced by a new commander who banned all musical performances at the Hob because music caused trouble.[10]

Lyrics[]

Are you, are you

Coming to the tree

Where they strung up a man they say murdered three?

Strange things did happen here

No stranger would it be

If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.



Are you, are you

Coming to the tree

Where the dead man called out for his love to flee?

Strange things did happen here

No stranger would it be

If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.



Are you, are you

Coming to the tree

Where I told you to run, so we'd both be free?

Strange things did happen here

No stranger would it be

If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.



Are you, are you

Coming to the tree

Wear a necklace of rope, side by side with me.

Strange things did happen here

No stranger would it be

If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.''


Media[]
The Hanging Tree’ James Newton Howard ft. Jennifer Lawrence (Official Audio)Official version of Jennifer Lawrence[6] and James Newton's The Hanging Tree released by Vevo.Rachel Zegler – The Hanging Tree (from The Hunger Games- The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes)

Mentioned songs[]
"Anthem"[]
The national song of Panem at the time of the 74th Hunger Games. It often accompanies Capitol propaganda media and is played at the end of each day in the Hunger Games arena.

"Rue's four-note song"[]
This simple melody was developed by Rue as a signal to the District 11 agricultural workers that the working day had ended. She whistled the tune to a group of mockingjays, who then carried it across the fields and orchards.[2] Rue and Katniss later used this tune to signal each in the arena.[11]

"Mouse song"[]
In the 75th Hunger Games, Wiress sang a children's song about a mouse and a clock.[12] The Catching Fire film interpreted this as the classic folk song "Hickory Dickory Dock".[13]

"District 4 wedding song"[]
Music features prominently in the wedding of Finnick Odair and Annie Cresta; the traditional wedding song of District 4 compares marriage to a long sea voyage, and at the celebration following the ceremony, the refugees from District 12 show off their traditional music and dancing.[14]

Featured songs in The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes[]
"Gem of Panem"[]
Main article: Gem of Panem
"Gem of Panem" is the anthem of Panem during the Dark Days, and it remained so during the time of the 10th Hunger Games as well. It is a favorite song of the Grandma'am, the grandmother of Coriolanus Snow, and he is talented at singing it as well due to having heard her sing it many times.

Lyrics[]

Gem of Panem

Mighty city

Through the ages you shine anew



We humbly kneel

To your ideal

And pledge our love to you



Gem of Panem

Heart of Justice

Wisdom crowns your marble brow



You give us light

You reunite

To you we make our vow



Gem of Panem

Seat of power

Strength in peacetime, shield in strife



Protect our land

With armored hand

Our Capitol

Our life


Media[]
 	  	 	 			   	 	 		 			 		 		 			Anthem- Gem of Panem (Instrumental) 		 		 	 

"Nothing You Can Take From Me"[]
This song was performed by Lucy Gray Baird at her reaping. It was the first song that Coriolanus Snow ever heard her perform. As it was broadcast nationally throughout Panem and to the Capitol, it made her an instant sensation, catching the attention of those who would be sponsors even before the sponsorship program was conceived of. The first lines of the song were actually sung by members of the Covey within the audience in District 12; Lucy Gray Baird then picked up the song and continued it.[15]

Lyrics[]

You can't take my past.

You can't take my history.

You could take my pa,

But his name's a mystery.

Nothing you can take from me was ever worth keeping.



You can't take my charm.

You can't take my humor.

You can't take my wealth,

'Cause it's just a rumor.

Nothing you can take from me was ever worth keeping.



Thinking you're so fine.

Thinking you can have mine.

Thinking you're in control.

Thinking you'll change me, maybe rearrange me.

Think again, if that's your goal,

'Cause...



You can't take my sass.

You can't take my talking.

You can kiss my ass

And then keep on walking.

Nothing you can take from me was ever worth keeping.



No, sir,

Nothing you can take me from me is worth dirt.

Take it, 'cause I'd give it free. It won't hurt.

Nothing you can take from me was ever worth keeping!


Media[]
Nothing You Can Take From MeNothing You Can Take From Me (Boot-Stompin' Version)

"The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird"[]
This song is performed by Lucy Gray Baird during her interview before the Games. Coriolanus Snow considered it a dark, moving and far too personal account of Lucy Gray's life, and found himself jealous.[16] Lucy Gray later explained to Snow that the last line specifically refers to Billy Taupe Clade, in that he bet that he could have the affections of both her and Mayor Lipp's daughter, Mayfair.[4] Forty years later, Snow arranged for Haymitch Abernathy to see the footage of Lucy Gray singing this song.[17] In author Suzanne Collins's acknowledgements for The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, she states that is an entirely original song and is meant to be sung to a variation of a traditional ballad tune that has long accompanied tales of the unfortunate ends of rakes, bards, soldiers, cowboys, and the like. The title of the song is provided in these acknowledgements.[18]

Lyrics[]

When I was a babe I fell down in the holler.

When I was a girl I fell into your arms.

We fell on hard times and we lost our bright color.

You went to the dogs and I lived by my charms.



I danced for my dinner, spread kisses like honey.

You stole and you gambled and I said you should.

We sang for our suppers, we drank up our money.

Then one day you left, saying I was no good.



Well, all right, I'm bad, but then, you're no prize either.

All right, I'm bad, but then, that's nothing new.

You say you won't love me, I won't love you neither.

Just let me remind you who I am to you.



'Cause I am the one who looks out when you're leaping.

I am the one who knows how you were brave.

And I am the one who heard what you said sleeping.

I'll take that and more when I go to my grave.



It's sooner than later that I'm six feet under.

It's sooner than later that you'll be alone.

So who will you turn to tomorrow, I wonder?

For when the bell rings, lover, you're on your own.



And I am the one who you let see you weeping.

I know the soul that you struggle to save.

Too bad I'm the bet that you lost in the reaping.

Now what will you do when I go to my grave?


Media[]
 	  	 	 			   	 	 		 			 		 		 			The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird 		 		 	 

"The Old Therebefore"[]
This was another song performed by Lucy Gray Baird. She sang it after Dr. Volumnia Gaul loosed snake muttations into the Capitol Arena. The snakes were completely mesmerized by her and after completing it, Lucy Gray began a soft humming to keep them docile.[19]

Lyrics[]

You're headed for heaven,

The sweet old hereafter,

And I've got one foot in the door.

But before I can fly up,

I've loose ends to tie up,

Right here in The old therebefore.



I'll be along

When I've finished my song,

When I've shut down the band,

When I've played out my hand,

When I've paid all my debts,

When I have no regrets,

Right here in

The old therebefore,

When nothing

Is left anymore.



I'll catch you up

When I've emptied my cup,

When I've worn out my friends,

When I've burned out both ends,

When I've cried all my tears,

When I've conquered my fears,

Right here in

The old therebefore,

When nothing

Is left anymore.



I'll bring the news

When I've danced off my shoes,

When my body's closed down,

When my boat's run aground,

When I've tallied the score,

And I'm flat on the floor,

Right here in

The old therebefore,

When nothing

Is left anymore



When I'm pure like a dove,

When I've learned how to love,

Right here in

The old therebefore,

When nothing

Is left anymore.


Media[]
 	  	 	 			   	 	 		 			 		 		 			The Old Therebefore - Singing at Snakes 		 		 	 

"That Thing I Love With"[]
This song is performed by Lucy Gray Baird and the Covey at the Hob. It is the first song that she performs upon her return to District 12 after winning the 10th Hunger Games, and it is the first song that Coriolanus Snow hears her perform in District 12. It has a bright and upbeat musical accompaniment.[20]

Lyrics[]

My heart's stupid and that's not maybe.

Can't blame Cupid, he's just a baby.

Shoot it, boot it, execute it,

Still comes a-crawling to you-hoo.



Heart's gone funny, it won't hear reason.

You're like honey, you bring the bees in.

Sting it, wring it, give it a fling, it

Still comes a-crawling to you.



I wish it mattered that

You chose to smash it up.

How come you shattered that

Thing I love with?



Did you feel flattered that

You could just trash it up?

That's why you battered that

Thing I love with.



Trapped my ticker but haven't freed it.

People snicker at how you treat it.

Snare it, tear it, strip it bare, it

Still comes a-crawling to you-hoo.



Heart's been jumping just like a rabbit.

Blood keeps pumping but that's just habit.

Drain it, pain it, I'm insane, it

Still comes a-crawling to you.



Burn it, spurn it, don't return it,

Break it, bake it, overtake it,

Wreck it, deck it, what the heck, it

Still comes a-crawling to you.



"Lucy Gray"[]
This was the song from which Lucy Gray Baird got her name. Maude Ivory performed it for Snow during a day trip to the lake in the wilderness, a couple of hours from District 12. The song was about a girl who was sent out into a snowstorm and apparently ended up becoming a ghost girl. Snow disliked the song, as he both did not understand it entirely and thought it ridiculous.[21]
The second to last verse was put on her grave marker in the Covey's secret graveyard. Haymitch Abernathy stumbled across it forty years after Lucy Gray vanished while looking for the grave of Lenore Dove Baird.[22]
"Lucy Gray" is actually originally a poem written by William Wordsworth in 1799. The poem, due to its age, is in the public domain. The lyrics featured in The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes are slightly tweaked by author Suzanne Collins to fit the Covey.[18]

Lyrics[]

Oft I had heard of Lucy Gray:

And, when I crossed the wild,

I chanced to see at break of day

The solitary child.



No mate, no comrade Lucy knew;

She dwelt where none abide

—The sweetest thing that ever grew

Upon the mountainside!



You yet may spy the fawn at play

The hare among the green;

But the sweet face of Lucy Gray

Will never more be seen.

 

“To-night will be a stormy night—

You to the town must go;

And take a lantern, Child, to light

Your mother through the snow.”



“That, Father! Will I gladly do:

'Tis scarcely afternoon —

The village clock has just struck two,

And yonder is the moon!”



At this the Father turned his hook,

To kindling for the day;

He plied his work; — and Lucy took

The lantern on her way.



As carefree as a mountain doe:

A fresh, new path she broke

Her feet dispersed the powdery snow,

That rose up just like smoke.



The storm came on before its time:

She wandered up and down;

And many a hill did Lucy climb:

But never reached the town.



The wretched parents all that night

Went shouting far and wide;

But there was neither sound nor sight

To serve them as a guide.



At daybreak on a hill they stood

That overlooked the scene;

And thence they saw the bridge of wood,

That spanned a deep ravine.



They wept — and, turning homeward, cried,

"In Heaven we all shall meet!";

— When in the snow the mother spied

The print of Lucy's feet.



Then downwards from the steep hill's edge

They tracked the footmarks small;

And through the broken hawthorn hedge,

And by the long stone-wall;



And then an open field they crossed:

The marks were still the same;

They tracked them on, not ever lost;

And to the bridge they came.



They followed from the snowy bank

Those footmarks, one by one,

Into the middle of the plank;

And further there were none!



— Yet some maintain that to this day

She is a living child;

That you may see sweet Lucy Gray

Upon the lonesome wild.



O'er rough and smooth she trips along,

And never looks behind;

And sings a solitary song

That whistles in the wind.


Media[]
Lucy Gray (part 1)Lucy Gray (part 2)

"I'll Sell You For a Song"[]
Lucy Gray Baird sings this song, described as a downbeat number with a "mournful" musical accompaniment by the rest of the Covey. Coriolanus Snow disliked it, as he thought that it might be inspired by Lucy Gray's spurned lover, Billy Taupe.[23]

Lyrics[]

You come home late,

Fall on your cot.

You smell like something that money bought.

We don't have cash, or so you say.

So where did you get it and how'd you pay?



The sun don't rise and set for you.

You think so, but you're wrong.

You tell me lies, I can't stay true—

I'll sell you for a song.



You get up late,

Won't say a word.

You been with her, that's what I've heard.

I don't own you, so I've been told..

But what do I do when the nights get cold?



The moon don't wax and wane for you.

You think so, but you're wrong.

You cause me pain, you make me blue—

I'll sell you for a song.



You're here, you're not.

It's more than me,

It's more than you, it's more like we.

They're young and soft, they worry so.

You coming or going, they need to know.



The stars don't shine and shoot for you.

You think so, but you're wrong..

You mess with mine, I'll hurt you, too—

I'll sell you for a song.



"Pure As The Driven Snow"[]
This was another song by Lucy Gray Baird. Coriolanus Snow believed she had written it for him.[24]

Lyrics[]

Everyone's born as clean as a whistle—

As fresh as a daisy

And not a bit crazy.

Staying that way's a hard row for hoeing—

As rough as a briar,

Like walking through fire.



This world, it's dark,

And this world, it's scary.

I've taken some hits, so

No wonder I'm wary.

It's why I

Need you—

You're pure as the driven snow.



Everyone wants to be a hero—

The cake with the cream, or

The doer not dreamer.

Doing's hard work, It takes some to change things—

Like goat's milk to butter,

Like ice blocks to water.



This world goes blind

When children are dying.

I turn to dust, but

You never stop trying.

It's why I

Love you—

You're pure as the driven snow.



Cold and clean,

Swirling over my skin,

You cloak me.

You soak right in,

Down to my heart.



Everyone thinks they know all about me.

They slap me with labels.

They spit out their fables.

You came along, you knew it was lying.

You saw the ideal me,

And yes, that's the real me.



This world, it's cruel,

With troubles aplenty.

You asked for a reason—

I've got three and twenty

For why I

Trust you—

You're pure as the driven snow.



That's why I

Trust you—

You're pure as the driven snow.


Media[]
 	  	 	 			   	 	 		 			 		 		 			Pure As The Driven Snow 		 		 	 

"The Valley Song"[]
Lucy Gray Baird sang a slightly modified version of "Down in the Valley," a traditional American folk song, in the monkey cage at the Capitol zoo,[25] and later to Snow in District 12.[20] This may also be the same song Peeta Mellark remembers hearing Katniss sing at school when they were children.[26] 

Lyrics[]

Down in the valley, valley so low,

Late in the evening, hear the train blow.

The train, love, hear the train blow.

Late in the evening, hear the train blow.



Go build me a mansion, build it so high,

So I can see my true love go by.

See him go by, love, see him go by.

So I can see my true love go by.



Go write a letter, send it by mail.

Bake it and stamp it to the Capitol jail.

Capitol jail, love, to the Capitol jail.

Bake it and stamp it to the Capitol jail.



Roses are red, love; violets are blue.

Birds in the heavens know I love you.

Know I love you, oh, know I love you,

Birds in the heavens know I love you.



Other minor songs[]
Mockingjays and jabberjays echoed people's screams at the hanging tree in District 12, gradually devolving from recognizable human speech into "a string of notes that mirrored the inflection of [one's] voice".[20]
Maude Ivory sang a version of a traditional American folk ballad, "Oh My Darling, Clementine".[20][18]
Coriolanus described something Lucy Gray once sung about a man thought to have frozen to death. After an attempt at cremation, "he only thawed out and was fine. Sam Somebody."[21] This is likely "The Cremation of Sam McGee", a 1907 poem by Robert W. Service.
The Covey also sang a birthday song to Commander Hoff.[24]
The Covey performed a version of "Keep on the Sunny Side", originally written by Ada Blenkhorn and J. Howard Entwhistle.[23][18]
 	  	 	 			   	 	 		 			 		 		 			Keep On The Sunny Side 		 		 	 
Songs in Sunrise on the Reaping[]
"The Goose and the Common"[]
This is a variation of an anonymous late 18th century English poem about social injustice that Lenore Dove sets to music, but is not allowed to play in public.[27] Haymitch also sung it when he thought he had broken the arena by flooding Sub-A.[28]

Lyrics[]

They hang the man and flog the woman

Who steals the goose from off the common,

Yet let the greater villain loose

That steals the common from the goose.



The law demands that we atone

When we take things we do not own,

But leaves the lords and ladies fine

Who take things that are yours and mine.



The poor and wretched don't escape

If they conspire the law to break.

This must be so but they endure.

Those who conspire to make the law.



The law locks up the man or woman

Who steals the goose from off the common.

And geese will still a common lack

Till they go and steal it back.


Wiress' Song[]
Wiress sang this song to herself before the 49th Hunger Games to remind herself of her priorities. The next year, she taught it to the District 12 tributes.[29]

Lyrics[]

First avoid the slaughter,

Get weapons, look for water,

Find food and where to sleep,

Fire and friends can keep.


"Ah! Sun-flower"[]
"Ah! Sun-flower" is a real-world poem by William Blake. It was "[a]n old-timey song" sung by Lenore Dove. Haymitch Abernathy later sung it to the tributes from District 9 to attempt to recruit them to the Newcomers. The tributes acted awkward after Haymitch sung it, and Maysilee tried not to laugh.[30]

Lyrics[]

Ah Sun-flower! weary of time,

Who countest the steps of the Sun:

Seeking after that sweet golden clime

Where the travellers journey is done.


District 11 Harvest Song[]
This was a song sung by the children of District 11 during harvesttime. Chicory was shocked when Lou Lou started singing it, as she didn't know that Lou Lou was originally from 11.[31] Lou Lou sung the song again when she found a mockingjay in a tree in the arena.[32]

Lyrics[]

Flower there beside my feet

Growing up between the corn

Combine's here so duck your head

Duck your head

Duck your head

Combine's here so duck your head

To see another morn.



Mockingjay up on the branch

Nesting in this apple tree

Picking time so fly away

Fly away

Fly away

Picking time so fly away

Fly away with me.


Ladybug, Ladybug[]
This is an American variant of a real-world nursery rhyme. It was sung by Maysilee Donner to Haymitch the night after they escaped the ladybug mutts.[33] She also sung it as the faced off against the ladybug mutts for the second time.[34]

Lyrics[]

Ladybug, ladybug fly away home.

Your house is on fire, your children are gone.

All except one, who answers to Nan.

She’s hiding under the frying pan.


The Raven[]
"The Raven" by Edgar Allan Poe echoes throughout Sunrise on the Reaping, as it is Lenore Dove's name ballad.

Lyrics[]

Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,

Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore —

While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,

As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door —

“’Tis some visitor,” I muttered, “tapping at my chamber door —

Only this and nothing more.”



Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December;

And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.

Eagerly I wished the morrow; — vainly I had sought to borrow

From my books surcease of sorrow — sorrow for the lost Lenore —

For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore —

Nameless here for evermore.



And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain

Thrilled me — filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;

So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating

“’Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door —

Some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door; —

This it is and nothing more.”



Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,

“Sir,” said I, “or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;

But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,

And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,

That I scarce was sure I heard you” — here I opened wide the door; —

Darkness there and nothing more.



Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,

Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before;

But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token,

And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, “Lenore?”

This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, “Lenore!”

Merely this and nothing more.



Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,

Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before.

“Surely,” said I, “surely that is something at my window lattice;

Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore —

Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore; —

’Tis the wind and nothing more!”



Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,

In there stepped a stately Raven of the saintly days of yore;

Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he;

But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door —

Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door —

Perched, and sat, and nothing more.



Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,

By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,

“Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou,” I said, “art sure no craven,

Ghastly grim and ancient Raven wandering from the Nightly shore —

Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night’s Plutonian shore!”

Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”



Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly.

Though its answer little meaning — little relevancy bore;

For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being

Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door —

Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,

With such name as “Nevermore.”



But the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only

That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.

Nothing farther then he uttered — not a feather then he fluttered —

Till I scarcely more than muttered “Other friends have flown before —

On the morrow he will leave me, as my Hopes have flown before.”

Then the bird said “Nevermore.”



Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,

“Doubtless,” said I, “what it utters is its only stock and store

Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster

Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore —

Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore —

Of ‘Never — nevermore.’”



But the Raven still beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,

Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door;

Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking

Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore —

What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore

Meant in croaking “Nevermore.”



This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing

To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom’s core;

This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining

On the cushion’s velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o’er,

But whose velvet-violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o’er,

She shall press, ah, nevermore!



Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer

Swung by seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.

“Wretch,” I cried, “thy God hath lent thee — by these angels he hath sent thee

Respite — respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore;

Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!”

Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”



This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing

To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom’s core;

This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining

On the cushion’s velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o’er,

But whose velvet-violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o’er,

She shall press, ah, nevermore!





“Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil! — prophet still, if bird or devil! —

Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,

Desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted —'

On this home by Horror haunted — tell me truly, I implore —

Is there — is there balm in Gilead? — tell me — tell me, I implore!”

Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”





“Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil! — prophet still, if bird or devil!

By that Heaven that bends above us — by that God we both adore —

Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,

It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore —

Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore.”

Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”





“Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!” I shrieked, upstarting —

“Get thee back into the tempest and the Night’s Plutonian shore!

Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!

Leave my loneliness unbroken! — quit the bust above my door!

Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!”

Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”



And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting

On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;

And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon’s that is dreaming,

And the lamp-light o’er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor;

And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor

Shall be lifted — nevermore!


Other minor songs[]
Lenore Dove sung a song called "The Capitol Store," and is mentioned as having played "The Hanging Tree"[35]  for Burdock Everdeen.[36]
"Nothing You Can Take From Me" was alluded to as a song Lenore Dove would sing. Maysilee knew the titular phrase, but had never heard the song.[34]
While trapped alone in the apartment after his victory, Haymitch has no control over the television. He is forced to listen to replays of gory Hunger Games deaths. However, one evening, a recording of Lucy Gray's performance of "The Old Therebefore" plays, to mess with Haymitch's mind.[37] Burdock sang the song at the funeral of Willamae and Sid Abernathy, Louella McCoy, Maysilee Donner, and Wyatt and Jethro Callow's funeral, comforting Haymitch.[38]
Trivia[]
In The Hunger Games film, Katniss sings the first verse of "Deep in the Meadow" to Prim to calm her down from a nightmare, just before she leaves to go hunting on the morning of the Reaping.[39]
During training for the 75th Hunger Games, Beetee mentions to Katniss that he has created a music chip small enough to be concealed in a flake of glitter, but that can hold hours of songs[40].
While confined in the Training Center following her assassination of President Coin, Katniss finds herself singing all the songs she had learned from her father, "Hour after hour of ballads, love songs, mountain airs."[41]
Jennifer Lawrence was allegedly "horrified to sing" the Hanging Tree song. It was reported that she "cried a little bit in the morning before" the scene was shot. She was very insecure about her voice.[42] Fortunately, she did an amazing job and the song went to Number 1 worldwide on the iTunes Sales chart.[43]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 18

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Hunger Games, Chapter 16

↑ Mockingjay, Epilogue

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 27

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 9

↑ 6.0 6.1 The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 30

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 17

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 23

↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 16

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ 18.0 18.1 18.2 18.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Acknowledgements

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20

↑ 20.0 20.1 20.2 20.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 23

↑ 21.0 21.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 26

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 27

↑ 23.0 23.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28

↑ 24.0 24.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 29

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 5

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 22

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 18

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 7

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 11

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 15

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 16

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 21

↑ 34.0 34.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 22

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 14

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 26

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 26

↑ The Hunger Games film

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 27

↑ Millero, Julie (November 10, 2014). Jennifer Lawrence Cried Before Her Hunger Games: Mockingjay Singing Scene. VanityFair.

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 Trivia on IMDb






