

Stele


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	17 (film)[1]16 (Hunger Games: Tribute Guide)



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute



	
		Home
	
	District 7



	
		Weapon
	
	Spear



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male



	
		Height
	
	5'3" (film)[1]




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Sam Ly (film)Redmond Rance (stage)





Stele was the male tribute from District 7 who participated in the 74th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Tribute Parade
1.1.2 Training
1.1.3 Cornucopia bloodbath




2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was the District 7 male tribute's costume in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, the male tribute from District 7 was dressed in a costume symbolizing his district's primary industry, lumber. The outfit consisted of paper clothes and a fan-like paper headdress, a style that has been used for District 7 tributes for four decades.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What training did the District 7 male tribute undergo for the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In preparation for the 74th Hunger Games, the District 7 male tribute honed his spear-throwing skills with a trainer's guidance. He also attended a rules briefing led by Atala, alongside Katniss, Peeta, and the male tributes from Districts 4 and 8.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How has the stylist for District 7 been dressing the tributes for the past 40 years?
						
				
				
					
						The District 7 stylist, based in The Capitol, styled the district's tributes for four decades. The stylist's signature approach was to dress the tributes in tree-themed costumes for each Tribute Parade. This stylist's career spanned from approximately the 35th to the 75th Hunger Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who were the other tributes training nearby the District 7 male in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the training period of the 74th Hunger Games, the District 7 male trained with several tributes. Notably, this group included Clove, the District 4 female, the District 8 male, the District 6 female, and Thresh. Katniss, the District 3 male, and the District 10 male were also present, although they did not directly cause any fatalities during the games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What does the District 7 male tribute's outfit represent in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The District 7 male tribute's outfit in the 74th Hunger Games symbolized his district's primary industry, lumber. He donned paper clothes and a fan-like paper headdress, representing trees. This tree-themed attire has been a 40-year tradition for District 7 tributes. In the arena, he, like other tributes, wore olive cargo pants, a hooded nylon jacket with silver stripes, and brown buckle boots.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
74th Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 7 tributes in their parade costumes. 		 	 
Tribute Parade[]
In the film, he and his district partner were seen wearing fan-like paper headdresses and paper clothes, representing lumber,[2] although Johanna Mason said their stylist have been dressing the District 7 tributes as trees for the last 40 years.[3]

Training[]
During the training, he threw a spear with the help of a trainer while the District 10 male and the District 6 male trained wrestling nearby. He was also seen along with Katniss, Peeta, Bravura and the District 8 male listening to Atala explaining the rules.[2]

Cornucopia bloodbath[]
Stele was killed in the initial Cornucopia bloodbath.[4] He was stationed on the right of Foxface and on the left of Cato on the pedestals. When the gong rang, he ran towards the Cornucopia. He first got into a physical altercation with Jason. Afterwards, he tried to attack the District 10 male but ended up getting shoved to the ground. Then he saw the District 5 male attack his district partner, so he grabbed a spear and knocked down the District 5 male. He was about to kill him, but Thresh got in the way. He tried to stab Thresh, but Thresh kicked the spear out of his hands and slashed part of his face off, killing him.[2]

Trivia[]
In the film, his odds of winning were 5–1, he was 17 years old, and he weighed 110 pounds.[1]
In the arena, he wears a russet brown jacket.
In the bloodbath, he replaces the District 9 male, making him appear to have two deaths.
According to the death toll behind Caesar and Claudius, it is seen that he died 37 seconds after the Games started, so he placed 19th.
He was the 6th death, but the scoreboard behind Caesar states that he was the 7th death.
In The Hunger Games On Stage, his name is Stele.[5] The stele is the central core of a plant's root and stem system.
Gallery[]
Stele listening to the rules along with other tributesThe District 7 tributes waiting for their interviewsThresh slashing Stele's faceTribute Identification Card
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 File:Full stats board.png

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Hunger Games film

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 11

↑ https://www.instagram.com/p/DNF1SBdoBmo/






