

Strabo Plinth


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Munitions manufacturerWar profiteer



	
		Home
	
	District 2 (formerly)
The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Mrs. Plinth (wife)Sejanus Plinth (son)Unnamed sister-in-law



	
		Fate
	
	Presumed Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Michael Greco





Strabo Plinth was a wealthy ammunitions tycoon. He was originally from District 2 and later moved to the Capitol with his wife, Mrs. Plinth, and son, Sejanus Plinth. A war profiteer, his power and influence gave him opportunities most in the districts could only dream of.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Personality and traits
3 Physical description
4 Etymology
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What was Strabo Plinth's role in the First Rebellion?
						
				
				
					
						Strabo Plinth was a war profiteer in the First Rebellion. He allied with the Capitol, supplying the majority of the weaponry against District 13. His weapon manufacturing and the resulting wealth not only earned the Plinth family Capitol citizenship but also allowed them to move into the elite Corso residence a decade post-rebellion.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Strabo Plinth amass his wealth?
						
				
				
					
						Strabo Plinth gained wealth as a munitions manufacturer during the First Rebellion. His strategic alliance with President Ravinstill and the Capitol, coupled with his wealth, secured a place for his family in the Capitol. His status was further elevated when he moved into the Corso, a residence for elite families, a decade post the rebellion.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of the Plinth Prize in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Strabo Plinth established the Plinth Prize in the 10th Hunger Games as a significant monetary award. It was meant for the mentor of the Hunger Games' winning tribute, covering University tuition fees. The Prize also offered potential access to government's highest echelons, including a possible War Department apprenticeship. Despite its intentions, the Plinth Prize was never given out.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Strabo Plinth's relationship with President Ravinstill benefit him?
						
				
				
					
						Strabo Plinth gained wealth and status through his alliance with President Ravinstill. His support for the Capitol during the First Rebellion enabled him to profit from weapon and machinery production. This wealth facilitated his family's move to the Capitol's elite Corso. After Sejanus Plinth's death, Ravinstill manipulated Plinth's parents into accepting him as their heir, further securing his financial stability.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is known about the Plinth family's apartment in the Capitol?
						
				
				
					
						Residing in the Capitol, the Plinth family's apartment is in an opulent building on the Corso, a luxurious avenue of marble and granite. As the last 'new money' family post-District travel restrictions, their move to the Corso apartments cemented their elite status. Despite rebellion and taxes, they retained their lifestyle, including personal Avox drivers. They ensured their continued residence in the building's penthouse by making Snow their heir.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
During the Dark Days, he made a fortune off munitions, managing to buy himself and his family a place in the Capitol, and chose to side with President Ravinstill against the districts. By doing so, and strategically donating a portion of his wealth, he was able to see to it that his family enjoyed privileges that even the oldest and most powerful families of the Capitol had only earned over generations. One such donation allowed his son, Sejanus Plinth, a place at the Academy.[1]
His son, Sejanus, was a top-performing student at the Academy and thus was selected for the mentor program for the 10th Hunger Games. He personally saw to it that his son was assigned the male tribute from District 2, Marcus. He was trying to teach his rebellious son a lesson, as Sejanus still sympathized with the districts.[2]
Strabo's move backfired, in that Marcus escaped during a bombing of the Capitol Arena. Marcus was captured and strung up inside the arena at the start of the games and Sejanus, in a rash move, snuck inside the arena to try to help him. After Sejanus was rescued by Coriolanus Snow, Strabo created the Plinth Prize to try to tide things over and keep his son's actions from being revealed publicly. This was a prize that was supposed to be awarded to the student who mentored the victor of the 10th Hunger Games, a prize large enough to pay for their University tuition. Strabo denied that it had been his idea, instead giving credit to his son.[3]
On the third night of the Games, Coriolanus headed to the Plinth apartment, where he met Strabo Plinth. Strabo offered him whiskey, then when he refused, compared Coriolanus to his parents. After thanking Coriolanus for saving Sejanus in the arena, they wished each other good night and Coriolanus left.[4]
Ultimately, Volumnia Gaul, head Gamemaker, felt that Sejanus's actions constituted treason. Strabo then bought her off by funding a new gymnasium for Agrippina Sickle, as well as a laboratory for Dr. Gaul's muttation projects.[5] Because of this, they agreed to have Sejanus enroll in the Peacekeepers to get him out of the way, as well as letting Coriolanus officially graduate. Sejanus was sent to District 12 with Coriolanus Snow, who had also been disgraced in the games.[6] There, Sejanus ultimately got involved in a rebel plot. Coriolanus recorded evidence of Sejanus's treachery via a jabberjay and sent it back to the Capitol, where it was heard by Dr. Gaul.[5]


"My wife needs something to live for. So do I, for that matter. You've lost your parents. We've lost our son. I was thinking perhaps we could work something out."
—Strabo Plinth, explaining to Snow why he wanted to make him his heir[src]
With Sejanus dead, Strabo adopted Coriolanus as his heir, entirely unaware of the boy's betrayal of his son. He funded both his tuition and lifestyle, ending the poverty that had plagued his life since the end of the Dark Days. For his part, Coriolanus got along well with him, finding at times that he could almost forget that he had come from one of the districts. Strabo neither questioned Snow's expenditures nor nitpicked new additions to Snow's wardrobe and seemed pleased when Snow asked him for advice.[7]

Personality and traits[]
He was an extremely wealthy man and seemed convinced that with enough money, he could buy anything. To some degree, his strategy seemed to work. He bought himself and his family a place in the Capitol and a position of power. He also was able to buy his son into the Academy.[1] 
However, his money did not result in his son's loyalty or obedience. It was ultimately also unable to save his son's life when Sejanus was made into a Peacekeeper and engaged in rebellious activity in District 12.[5]

Physical description[]
Before announcing the Plinth Prize, Strabo had a stern expression which, according to Coriolanus Snow, seemed to be "carved from the very granite of his home district".[3]
When Coriolanus visited him in his apartment, Strabo had a profoundly sad expression on his face and wore an expensive smoking jacket with a velvet lapel. However, Coriolanus thought it suggested that the Plinths were always trying too hard to be Capitol, and clashed with their district personae rather than disguising them.[4]

Etymology[]
The name Strabo may come from Strabo, a Greek geographer, philosopher and historian during the transitional period from the Roman Republic into the Roman Empire. 
A plinth is a heavy base that supports a statue, vase, or column, coming from ancient Greco-Roman times. This can be a fitting surname as the Plinths supported the Capitol militarily during the Dark Days.

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 28

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 22

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue







