

Suzanne Collins


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Suzanne Collins



	
		Birthday
	
	August 10, 1962



	
		Birthplace
	
	Hartford, Connecticut, U.S.A



Suzanne Collins is an American television writer and novelist, best known for writing The Hunger Games trilogy.

Contents

1 Career

1.1 The Hunger Games


2 Publications
3 External links
4 References



Career[]
Collins began her career in television, writing episodes and actively participating on the staff of shows like Clarissa Explains It All. She was also the head-writer of Clifford's Puppy Days, and co-writer of the Rankin/Bass Christmas special, Santa, Baby.
When Collins started working on a Kids' WB show, Generation O!, she met children's author James Proimos, who suggested that she should try her hand at writing children's books. And that's how she started. Her first book was Gregor The Overlander, which was followed by four more books in The Underland Chronicles.

The Hunger Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Suzanne at the Hunger Games premiere.  		 	 
In 2008, Collins wrote the young-adult dystopian novel The Hunger Games. Collins claims that her early exposure to Greek mythology, especially the story of Theseus and the minotaur, planted seeds in her mind for the story. It wasn't until much later, when she was flipping between war coverage and reality T.V. programming, that Katniss Everdeen's story finally came to her. Not only this, but since her father was in the Vietnam War she also took those experiences and used them as inspiration for her book. In 2009, Collins released the sequel to The Hunger Games, Catching Fire. The final book in the trilogy, Mockingjay, was released in 2010.
In 2010 Time Magazine named Collins to the Time 100 list.[1] In March 2012, Amazon.com announced that Collins had become the best-selling Kindle author of all time.[2] Amazon also revealed that Collins had written 29 of the 100 most highlighted passages in Kindle ebooks. On a separate Amazon list of recently highlighted passages, Collins had written 17 of the top 20.[3]
It should be noted that Collins was one of the credited screenwriters for The Hunger Games film. She was also one of the film's producers.
A prequel to The Hunger Games, The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, was released in May 2020. Collins gave an interview regarding the new title, stating that while she always had a sense of who the fourth victor mentioned in passing in The Hunger Games might be, she had evolved a lot since then. Regarding Coriolanus Snow, she stated that "he experiences one of the most out-of-control emotions, falling in love. It turns out to be a bad combination."[4]

Publications[]
The Underland Chronicles
Gregor the Overlander (2003)
Gregor and the Prophecy of Bane (2004)
Gregor and the Curse of the Warmbloods (2005)
Gregor and the Marks of Secret (2006)
Gregor and the Code of Claw (2007)
The Hunger Games
The Hunger Games (2008)
Catching Fire (2009)
Mockingjay (2010)
The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes (2020, prequel)
Sunrise on the Reaping (2025, prequel)
Other books
Fire Proof: Shelby Woo #11 (1999)
When Charlie McButton Lost Power (2005)
Year of the Jungle (2013)
External links[]
Official website
 Suzanne Collins on Wikipedia
 Suzanne Collins at the Internet Movie Database
References[]


↑ Artists - Suzanne Collins

↑ Hungry for Hunger Games: Amazon.com Reveals the Top Cities in the U.S. Reading The Hunger Games Trilogy

↑ Who is the Best-Selling Kindle Author of All Time?

↑ Suzanne Collins on The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. Scholastic (May 19, 2020). Retrieved on May 24, 2020.





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2



The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





