

Sylva Mayleaf


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	50s (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Victor
Tribute



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 9



	
		Weapon
	
	PitchforkStaff



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Marian Green







"But the majority, who are in the clutches of drink or morphling or illness, look grotesque in their costumes, depicting cows and trees and loaves of bread."
—Katniss Everdeen expressing her disgust at District 9's costumes.[src]
Sylva Mayleaf[2] was the female tribute from District 9 in the 75th Hunger Games, and the victor of an unspecified Hunger Games, between the 31st-43rd Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Chariot rides
1.1.2 Training
1.1.3 Interview
1.1.4 Death




2 Trivia
3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was the District 9 female tribute in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The female tribute from District 9 in the 75th Hunger Games was a previous victor of an unspecified Hunger Games. She resided in the Victors' Village in District 9 and was depicted by Marian Green in the film adaptation.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What Hunger Games did the District 9 female victor win before the 75th edition?
						
				
				
					
						The District 9 female victor participated in the 75th Hunger Games, having previously won an unspecified edition of the Hunger Games. The exact edition she triumphed in is not detailed.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Was the District 9 female tribute costumed as a loaf of bread during the Tribute Parade?
						
				
				
					
						During the 75th Hunger Games Tribute Parade, tributes from an unspecified district were dressed as loaves of bread. This could potentially refer to the District 9 female tribute, given that District 9 is recognized for its food production. Nonetheless, the specific identity of the bread-costumed tributes is not definitively confirmed.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did the District 9 female tribute show up for training in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						It's not explicitly confirmed if the District 9 female tribute attended the training for the 75th Hunger Games. However, she had a training score typical of most tributes, which was around five.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Which district's tributes were costumed as loaves of bread in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Tribute Parade of the 75th Hunger Games, tributes from an unidentified district were dressed as loaves of bread. These tributes were likely from District 9 or District 11, both recognized for their food production industries.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Sylva participated in and won an unknown edition of the Hunger Games before being reaped for the 75th Hunger Games.

75th Hunger Games[]
Chariot rides[]
During the Tribute Parade, an unknown district's tributes were costumed as loaves of bread;[3] this was presumably District 9 or District 11's tributes, since both had food-producing industries. In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, she and her district partner were dressed in golden outfits possibly designed to look like wheat or bread instead.

Training[]
It is unknown if she showed up for training, as she was never mentioned. In the film, she was seen talking to the District 10 male and female in the waiting room for the private sessions. 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 9 tributes holding hands with the other victors. 		 	 
Interview[]
During the interviews, she wore a sleeveless top and a white necklace and a black skirt over a pair of slacks matching her shirt color.[4] After the tributes were interviewed, she, along with the other tributes, joined hands as a sign of rebellion against the Capitol.[5]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sylva's death portrait. 		 	 
Death[]
Sylva was killed during the initial Cornucopia bloodbath. She was launched into the arena on the pedestal situated between Finnick's and Chaff's[4], and was killed towards the end of the bloodbath by Brutus.

Trivia[]
Along with the District 5 male she was among the most seen unnamed tributes in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire.
Marian Green confirmed several times on her Twitter that her character was killed by Brutus, but this scene was deleted. [6]
A contest was held by Marian Green for fans to name her character. The winning name was Sylva Mayleaf and her preferred weapon was a pitchfork.[2]
When asked by a fan, she confirmed her weapon was a staff via Instagram.[citation needed]
Gallery[]
The District 9 tributes during the parade.Sylva's chariot costumeSylva during training, speaking with the District 10 maleThe District 9 and District 10 tributes during trainingThe District 9 victors at the Interviews.Interview outfitFinnick Odair (left), Sylva (center) and Chaff (right) on their pedestals.
References[]


↑ The Hunger Games: The Exhibition

↑ 2.0 2.1 https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/1rifpd/comment/cdnmfze/

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Hunger Games film

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ https://twitter.com/mariangreen_1/status/406244863366021120





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





