

Tam Amber


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	Around 16 (Dark Days)[1]Around 26 (The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes)Around 66 (Sunrise on the Reaping)



	
		Occupation
	
	Mandolin playerBlacksmith[2]



	
		Home
	
	The Seam in District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	The Covey (adoptive family)Lenore Dove Baird † (adoptive niece)Burdock Everdeen † (distant relative)



	
		Fate
	
	Presumed deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Eike Onyambu







"A tall, rawboned young man in a feathered hat came from behind the curtain, strumming an instrument similar to a guitar but with a body more like a teardrop. He walked straight to Maude Ivory's side, not acknowledging the audience in any way, his fingers moving easily over the strings."
—Description of Tam Amber[src]
Tam Amber was a resident of District 12 and a member of the Covey. Tam Amber was a standout player on his mandolin, performing with lightning-fast fingering while keeping his facial features expressionless and distant.[3]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Early life
1.2 Covey Genocide
1.3 10th Hunger Games
1.4 Aftermath
1.5 50th Hunger Games


2 Physical description
3 Family
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What instrument is Tam Amber known for playing?
						
				
				
					
						Tam Amber, from District 12 and part of the Covey, is recognized for his standout mandolin playing, characterized by rapid fingering and a distant facial expression.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Tam Amber become a member of the Covey?
						
				
				
					
						Found as a baby in a cardboard box by the roadside, Tam Amber was adopted by the Covey, a nomadic group. He learned the mandolin and performed with the Covey to earn money. It's speculated that he was part of the Covey's plan to breed goats and sell milk for extra income.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did Tam Amber learn to play the mandolin?
						
				
				
					
						Tam Amber, hailing from District 12 and part of the Covey, was renowned for his exceptional mandolin skills. His performances were marked by rapid fingering and an unchanging, distant facial expression. The details of his mandolin learning journey, however, are not specified.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Early life[]
Tam Amber was found in a cardboard box left on the side of the road and taken in by the traveling Covey when he was just a baby. Because of this, they referred to him as a "lost soul".[4] He learned to play the mandolin and performed along with the rest of the Covey for profit.[3]

Covey Genocide[]
A few years prior to the events of The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Peacekeepers rounded up the Covey and killed many of them. The few remaining Covey were trapped in District 12, where they made their living doing musical performances.[5]

10th Hunger Games[]
Another member of the Covey, Lucy Gray Baird, had her name drawn in the reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[6] While Lucy Gray was gone, the Covey didn't perform at all, and they only saw Coriolanus Snow once during the televised night of tribute interviews; it had been a clear night in District 12, and Tam Amber had used a lot of tin foil to improve the reception.[4] Based on their rejection of Billy Taupe Clade, they listened to Lucy Gray sing "The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird" that night. She had written the song to inform them that Billy Taupe played a role in her being reaped.[7]

Aftermath[]
In the Covey's first performance at the Hob since Lucy Gray returned as a victor, Tam Amber was the first to be introduced by Maude Ivory Baird. He walked to her side while playing his mandolin. Later, he proved to be something of a standout on his mandolin during a solo, playing a lightning-fast piece while remaining expressionless.[3]
Tam Amber had fashioned a butter churn for Maude Ivory's birthday, as she was crazy for butter.[8]
The first time the Covey traveled to the lake outside District 12 with Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth, Tam Amber led them across the Meadow, into the woods and to the lake. After they swam, Tam Amber fashioned his own fishing poles and hooks. He caught, cleaned, gutted and cut up several fish, which were cooked for lunch. As the traveled back home, Tam Amber took a different route where they could pick berries. He then traveled on with Sejanus and Maude Ivory, taking Maude Ivory to the Hob for new shoes.[9] 
He believed there were still people living up north from District 12, outside the influence of the Capitol, although Lucy Gray wasn't convinced. When she left home for the last time, Tam Amber had been the only person awake. She told him she was going to find out about a goat, as they had been talking about building a herd and selling milk on the side.[10]

50th Hunger Games[]
By the time of the 50th Hunger Games, he had an adopted niece, Lenore Dove, who he raised with Clerk Carmine Clade after her mother died giving birth to her. He was also a very skilled and sought after blacksmith, and many in District 12 owned his creations; including Burdock Everdeen who used arrow tips made by him[2]. Lenore Dove traded eggs for metal with Tam Amber to make her boyfriend, Haymitch Abernathy, a present for his birthday which she helped design.[2] He taught Lenore Dove about the stars.[1] One of his creations was the mockingjay pin that was owned by Maysilee Donner and later Katniss Everdeen.[11] During the reaping, Lenore Dove got into trouble during the disarray after Woodbine Chance was killed. Upon its conclusion, Lenore Dove was put in handcuffs by a Peacekeeper until Tam Amber and Clerk Carmine bribed him with money to let her go. They led her down a sideroad when she tried to get to Haymitch, who had been reaped in Woodbine's place.[12]
Lenore Dove was arrested again not long later for playing forbidden songs in front of the Justice Building, causing her uncles great stress, as she was being held in the Peacekeepers' base.[13] When she was given permission to return home on house arrest, Tam Amber was concerned about her, but allowed her to go to the Meadow. However, Haymitch met Lenore Dove there and unintentionally fed her poisoned gumdrops planted by President Snow. She died almost immediately after.[14] Tam Amber watched as Clerk Carmine tried to restart her heart, mumbling, "not again."[15]

Physical description[]
Tam Amber was a tall, rawboned young man. He wore a feathered hat during his performances.[3]

Family[]
Since Tam Amber was abandoned on the side of the road as a baby, nothing is known of his biological family, and any adoptive family he had are presumed deceased due to the Covey genocide. After that, the six remaining Covey children were taken in by an old man for a fee. The man didn't raise them, but he didn't "much mess with [them]" either. He died of black lung the year prior to Lucy Gray's reaping, but some of the Covey were old enough to manage things by then.[16] Tam Amber was around 16 at the end of the Dark Days,[1] which would place him in his mid-to-late twenties at this time.

Etymology[]
Tam is a short Scots version of the name Thomas, meaning "twin". Since Covey names are drawn from ballads,[9] his is taken from Tam Lin.[17]  The second part, amber, is a valuable gemstone that sometimes occurs in coal seams, and is a golden yellow.

Trivia[]
The Covey had been talking about building a herd of goats and selling the milk as a second source of income,[18] so some theorize that the Goat Man from the trilogy may have been one of the Covey— most probably Tam Amber.
He is the only member of the Covey whose surname is unknown.
As revealed in Sunrise on the Reaping, he is the creator of the mockingjay pin that was a symbol of the Second Rebellion.[11]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 3

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 23

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 25

↑ 9.0 9.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 27

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 30

↑ 11.0 11.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 12

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 2

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 14

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 26

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 27

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ THE BALLAD OF SONGBIRDS AND SNAKES SCHOLASTIC INTERVIEW

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 29




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana



Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White





