

Tanner


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 10



	
		Weapon
	
	Sickle 
 Chain-sickle (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (killed by Coral and Mizzen)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Kjell Brutscheidt







"Bubbly by nature, [Domitia Whimsiwick] got her muscular District 10 tribute, Tanner, so engaged in talking about slaughterhouse techniques that Lucky had to cut them off when they ran over. Arachne had been wrong about the appeal of the topic, because Tanner garnered the most applause of the evening so far."
—Coriolanus Snow describing Tanner's interview.[src]
Tanner was the male tribute from District 10 in the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Domitia Whimsiwick. For a short amount of time, he was in an alliance with the District 4 duo, Mizzen and Coral.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 10th Hunger Games
1.2 Death
1.3 Film adaptation


2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 Gallery
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					Who was Tanner's mentor in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Tanner was mentored by Domitia Whimsiwick, a high-achieving student from the Academy. This was in line with the mentorship program established during the 10th Hunger Games, which utilized top students as mentors.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What district was Tanner from in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games series, Tanner hailed from District 10. He represented his district as the male tribute during the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Domitia Whimsiwick, and he temporarily allied with Mizzen and Coral from District 4. Tanner's transport to the Capitol was a grubby cattle car, indicative of District 10's livestock-centric economy.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who were Tanner's allies in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						During the 10th Hunger Games, Tanner allied with Mizzen and Coral from District 4. They were later joined by Treech, who decided to leave his district partner, Lamina. This alliance worked together for survival, sharing resources and providing mutual protection.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How was Tanner transported to the Capitol for the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Tanner, participating in the 10th Hunger Games, journeyed to the Capitol using a cargo train. The tributes were subsequently housed in a cage at the Capitol Zoo. The length of the train journey was dependent on the tribute's district, with District 12 to Capitol travel estimated at about a day.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Tanner's experience at the Capitol Zoo during the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Tanner was brought to the Capitol Zoo with fellow tributes, housed in the war-ravaged monkey house. His partner Brandy was killed by Peacekeepers after murdering her mentor. Tanner's mentor, Domitia Whimsiwick, engaged him in discussions about slaughterhouse techniques, a topic he was acquainted with.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Tanner at the reaping. 		 	 
Tanner grew up in District 10 and became his district's male tribute in the reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1] Along with the other tributes, Tanner was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2] While at the zoo, his district partner Brandy killed her mentor, Arachne Crane, so she was gunned down by Peacekeepers.[1]
During the interviews before the Games began, Tanner's mentor, Domitia Whimsiwick, used her knowledge of cows and bubbly nature to get Tanner speaking about slaughterhouse techniques, which he had grown familiar with during his time in District 10, the industry of which is livestock. He became so engaged in the conversation that Lucretius Flickerman, the interviewer, had to cut them off when they ran out of time, and he garnered the most applause of the evening so far.[3] Because of the interview, many Capitol citizens favored Tanner to win.[4]

10th Hunger Games[]
Tanner was one of the few tributes that sprinted for the weapons in the center of the Capitol Arena after the gong sounded to signal the beginning of the Games. However, like the others, he quickly dispersed after selecting his weapon. Later that morning, he was seen climbing up and strolling along the top of the arena, but only sat there for a while before vanishing again.[5]
During the Games, Sejanus Plinth went into the arena to protest the death of Marcus and hold vigil over Marcus' body. Coriolanus Snow was sent into the arena to coax Sejanus out, but as they left, Tanner pursued them, along with Mizzen, Coral, and Bobbin. He managed to cut open the back of Sejanus's calf with his knife, injuring him before Sejanus was able to escape. After this incident, Tanner, Coral and Mizzen formed an alliance.[6]
On the second day of the Games, he, Coral, and Mizzen teamed up once more to kill Sol, the female tribute from District 5. The alliance chased her until Coral speared Sol's throat with a trident.[6] 
On the third day, the trio prepared to kill Lamina, the female District 7 tribute. At first, Lamina took no notice, but was brought to attention when Tanner banged a sword against one of the poles, as she had taken shelter above. Tanner positioned himself underneath, holding a pair of tridents and directing the District 4 tributes while they climbed up, so they could corner Lamina and prevent her from escaping. When they reached the beam at the top, Tanner threw Mizzen's trident up for him to catch, but didn't toss it high enough and it fell back to the ground. Because Mizzen had been occupied with attempting to catch the trident, Lamina took the opportunity to injure him and knock him off balance. Tanner ran down to the other end and instead tossed a trident to Coral, who caught it easily and used it to kill Lamina.[7]

Death[]
After the alliance killed Lamina, Tanner rejoiced over her death, performing a kind of dance over her body. However, as he turned to congratulate Mizzen with a "victory slap," Coral drove a trident into his back. Tanner fell to the ground after being shoved away by Mizzen, who then finished him off using a knife to his neck.
Tanner's body was later collected by Reaper Ash, the District 11 male tribute, and taken to his makeshift morgue.[7]

Film adaptation[]
When the tributes and mentors visited the arena to devise strategies, Tanner was shown to have quickly formed an alliance with Coral and Mizzen, standing with them as they surveyed the arena. He watched as Coral invited Treech to join their alliance, and he witnessed Treech’s decision to abandon his district partner, Lamina.[8]
When the gong rang, Tanner pushed Lamina and headed to the center. He began fighting Panlo, who was soon killed by Coral. Tanner, Coral, Mizzen, and Treech gathered before chasing Lucy Gray Baird and Jessup Diggs into the tunnels. However, the two tributes narrowly escaped through a door.[8]
They continued to inspect the tunnels until nightfall, when Tanner grabbed Otto, who had been killed by one of them, out of the rubble. At night, the four saw Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth running towards the exit and decided to chase them, not stopping even when Bobbin was killed. After Coriolanus and Sejanus escaped, the tributes returned to the center of the arena. The next day, the four had cornered Lucy Gray when Coriolanus sent her several drones with water. The drones crashed into the alliance, and Lucy Gray was able to escape.[8]
After killing Lamina, the group turned around to retrieve the water. They saw Lucy Gray and chased her into a ventilation duct. When Tanner reproached Coral for not being able to kill her, Coral stuck her trident into his chest. Tanner placed 8th.[8]

Physical description[]
Tanner was described as muscular.[3]

Etymology[]
Tanner's name comes from tanning, the process of creating leather from animal skin.

Trivia[]
Mizzen and Coral may have started the alliance with Tanner to specifically kill Lamina because it required three people to block all of her exits.
Throughout the book, Tanner is referred to as strong. He was one of the only tributes along with Coral, Reaper, and Jessup to receive weapons from the weapons pile at the start of the Games.
Tanner is the third male tribute from District 10 in the series to outlive his female counterpart, similar to District 10 males from the 74th and 75th Hunger Games.
Gallery[]
Tanner's face on the monitors.Concept art of Tanner and Brandy's costumes.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ 6.0 6.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ 7.0 7.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





