

Teslee


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 3



	
		Weapon
	
	Drones



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Vanessa Blanck







"Vipsania frowned at the screen. "She's smarter than she looks." Teslee gave a satisfied smiled, and reeled in her drone, switching it off and giving it a loving hug."
—Teslee after using the drones to knock Mizzen off the pole and killing him.[src]
Teslee was the female tribute from District 3 in the 10th Hunger Games. Her mentor was Urban Canville.[1] She gained praise by being smarter than she looked.[2]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 10th Hunger Games
1.2 Death

1.2.1 Film adaptation




2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Gallery
5 References



Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Teslee talking to her mentor. 		 	 
Teslee was reaped for the 10th Hunger Games along with her district partner, Circ. Prior to the reaping, Teslee (as the girl tribute from her district) was assigned Capitol-born Academy student Urban Canville as her mentor for the games.[1] Like the other tributes, Teslee was immediately caged, shackled, and transported into the Capitol where she and her fellow competitors were dumped into the monkey house in the Capitol Zoo to be gawked at by Capitol citizens.[3]
Like many of the other tributes, Teslee refused to divulge any personal information about herself to her mentor, remaining distant and hostile. Because of this, she did not appear at the interviews before the Games began.[4]

10th Hunger Games[]
On the first day of the Games, Teslee and Circ collected drones that landed near Marcus's dead body. While assessing the damage, Teslee reattached some wires on another drone, leading to the lights blinking. When two more drones came in with gifts from Io Jasper, Circ's mentor, they collected them and ran back to the barricade after seeing Reaper Ash appear.[4]
When only seven tributes remained in the arena, Dr. Volumnia Gaul released a swarm of venomous snake mutts into the arena in retaliation for the death of Gaius Breen. Teslee and Circ, who were both running away initially because of Treech, stopped to look at the snake tank. Unlike Treech, who had sprinted away immediately after the tank had burst, Circ and Teslee stayed only for a few moments of confusion, which came at a great cost. Teslee managed to narrowly escape the swarm of snakes by climbing up a pole, but her district partner was not so lucky, and quickly met his end thanks to the muttations' deadly venom. 
Because of this, Teslee sobbed in terror. Mizzen, the male tribute from District 4, attempted to leap onto the pole across from Teslee for safety, and the snakes regrouped underneath her. As her grip began to fail, she looked towards Mizzen for help, but he was stunned. However, the snakes withdrew from Teslee's pole upon Lucy Gray Baird's arrival.[5] Teslee shakily slid to the ground and climbed onto a chain-link fence, later disappearing behind the barricade.[2]

Death[]
Later that day, Teslee appeared with the drone she had collected earlier, though it was slightly altered. As she flipped a switch, the drone ascended and headed towards Mizzen, revealing a cable that connected it to her wrist. As a different drone gifted Mizzen bread, it swerved and came back at him, and the same thing happened with three other drones. Together, they collided with and trapped him until he lost his balance, falling and snapping his neck on the ground. Satisfied, Teslee reeled in her drone and gave it a hug.
Unfortunately, she was promptly ambushed by Treech, who cleaved through her head with his axe, ending her life. This happened moments after Mizzen's death, and the screens were closed onto Teslee, so no one noticed Treech until it was too late. Her body was later added to Reaper's makeshift morgue.[2]

Film adaptation[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Teslee injured before the games begin. 		 	 
In The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Teslee was injured in the Capitol Arena Bombing, and had to be dragged into the arena. When she saw Coral almost kill Lucy Gray, Teslee attempted to escape. However, Mizzen spotted her, and Teslee crawled on the ground until she reached the pile of rubble where Mizzen tried to strangle her. When he failed, he stabbed her with a knife. Teslee placed 16th.[6]

Physical description[]
Teslee is described by Snow as a small, scruffy girl with dark, frizzy hair.[4]

Etymology[]
Teslee's name comes from Nikola Tesla, a famous Serbian electrical engineer and inventor.

Gallery[]
Teslee's face on the screens.Concept art of Circ and Teslee's costumes.Concept art of Teslee's weapons.Behind-the-scenes image of Vanessa Blanck (Teslee).
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





