For other uses, see The Hunger Games: Mockingjay.


The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1


	
		
		
	
	The courage of one will change the world.



	
		Director
	
	Francis Lawrence



	
		Producer
	
	Nina Jacobson
Jon Kilik



	
		Based on
	
	Mockingjay by Suzanne Collins



	
		Starring
	
	Jennifer Lawrence
Josh Hutcherson
Liam Hemsworth
(see more)



	
		Studio
	
	Lions Gate Entertainment



	
		Length
	
	2h 3m



	
		Date(s)
	
	November 10, 2014[1] (London)
November 21, 2014 (US)



	
		Country
	
	United States



	
		Preceded by
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Followed by
	
	The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2





"Fire burns brighter in the darkness."
—Official tagline
The Hunger Games: Mockingjay — Part 1 is an American 2014 Sci-Fi/Dystopian  feature film directed by Francis Lawrence and adaptation of the first half of Mockingjay by Suzanne Collins. It is the sequel to The Hunger Games: Catching Fire and third film in The Hunger Games film series.
The story continues to follow Katniss Everdeen; having twice survived the Hunger Games, Katniss finds herself in District 13. Under the leadership of President Coin and the advice of her trusted friends, Katniss reluctantly becomes the symbol of a mass rebellion, a mockingjay, against the Capitol and fights to save Peeta and a nation moved by her courage.
The film gained mixed reviews from critics (more positive than negative) and was Nominated for Best Original Song in the 72nd Golden Globe Awards.

Contents

1 Plot
2 Cast
3 Production
4 Reception

4.1 Box Office


5 Release

5.1 International premieres
5.2 Home media

5.2.1 Special features




6 Music
7 Videos

7.1 Promotional
7.2 TV Spots
7.3 Clips
7.4 Interviews


8 Differences from the book
9 Trivia
10 See also
11 References



Plot[]
After being rescued from the destroyed arena in the 75th Hunger Games, Katniss Everdeen, along with fellow Victors Beetee and Finnick Odair, are taken to District 13, an underground rebel facility hidden beneath the ruins of the old District 13, where she is reunited with her mother and sister Prim. While recuperating, she is introduced to President Alma Coin, the rebel leader, and is told that her actions in the arena sparked riots and strikes against the Capitol. Coin asks her if she will become the "Mockingjay"—the symbol of the rebellion—as part of their "hearts and minds" strategy. Katniss flatly declines, angrily reminding her that they left Peeta Mellark, her portrayed lover and fellow District 12 tribute, behind in the arena. At the suggestion of Plutarch Heavensbee, the former Gamemaker, she is taken to see the ruins of District 12, which was completely leveled by a Capitol bombing campaign (with the exception of the houses in the Victor's Village). After seeing that Peeta is being used by Capitol state television to try and quell the rebellion, Katniss reluctantly changes her mind and agrees to become Coin's Mockingjay, on the condition that Peeta and the other victors will be rescued at the earliest opportunity and pardoned.
After Haymitch notes that Katniss thrives on spontaneity, she is introduced to her film team (led by Capitol escapee Cressida), is dressed up in a specially-designed outfit, and given Effie Trinket as a stylist and close friend Gale as a bodyguard. They go out to District 8 to visit a hospital, but as the visit concludes, a Capitol bombing squadron arrives and bombs the hospital, killing everyone inside. In her rage, Katniss gives a rousing speech to the camera, which is broadcast when Beetee hijacks the Capitol's news feed. The team then go back to District 12, where Gale tells the story of its destruction, and Katniss is filmed singing "The Hanging Tree". After both are broadcast, strikers in District 7 kill an entire team of Peacekeepers with hidden land mines, and a rebel demolition team from District 5 destroys the dam providing the Capitol with electricity, forcing them to use power generators and weakening their ability to broadcast their propaganda.
That night, Katniss is watching Peeta being interviewed by Caesar Flickerman, the Games' former presenter, when, in an apparent defiance of his captors, he suddenly shouts a warning to the camera that the Capitol is about to attack District 13. Coin orders a mass evacuation into the underground shelters. While Prim is nearly locked out when she goes back to get her cat, everyone manages to get inside safely, and the facility survives the attack unharmed. Upon emerging, Katniss discovers that the area is littered with white roses, and realizes that President Snow has sent them to taunt her, and presumes that he is about to kill Peeta. As Peeta's warning gave the District an additional eight minutes evacuation time, Coin dispatches an elite special forces team, which includes Gale, to rescue him, along with Johanna Mason, and Annie Cresta, the remaining Victors, from their prison in the Capitol's Tribute center. The rescue is successful. However, when Katniss goes to greet Peeta, he unexpectedly attacks and strangles her into unconsciousness, before being knocked unconscious himself by Boggs.
Katniss wakes up in the medical facility, and is informed that Peeta has been "hijacked"— a form of physical/mental torture in which he is brainwashed into wanting to kill Katniss through aversion therapy and tracker jacker venom—explaining why the Capitol allowed Gale's team to escape. A process to undo the therapy begins, with Peeta kept in isolation. Meanwhile, Coin announces the successful rescue of the Victors, and that the fight may now be taken to the Capitol.[2] During Coin's speech, Katniss looks for Peeta and looks in horror as she sees the hijacked Peeta in solitary confinement, restrained.

Cast[]
Jennifer Lawrence as Katniss Everdeen
Josh Hutcherson as Peeta Mellark
Liam Hemsworth as Gale Hawthorne
Woody Harrelson as Haymitch Abernathy
Sam Claflin as Finnick Odair
Philip Seymour Hoffman as Plutarch Heavensbee
Elizabeth Banks as Effie Trinket
Donald Sutherland as President Snow
Willow Shields as Primrose Everdeen
Jena Malone as Johanna Mason
Jeffrey Wright as Beetee Latier
Stef Dawson as Annie Cresta
Paula Malcomson as Mrs. Everdeen
Stanley Tucci as Caesar Flickerman
Natalie Dormer as Cressida
Evan Ross as Messalla
Julianne Moore as President Alma Coin
Mahershala Ali as Boggs
Patina Miller as Commander Paylor
Wes Chatham as Castor
Elden Henson as Pollux
Omid Abtahi as Homes
Misty Ormiston as Leeg 1
Kim Ormiston as Leeg 2
Sarita Choudhury as Egeria
Robert Knepper as Antonius
Production[]
In July 2012, Lionsgate announced that Mockingjay was to be split into two films, respectively.[3] Mockingjay - Part 1 was slated for November 21, 2014, while Mockingjay - Part 2 was scheduled for November 20, 2015.[3] Like Catching Fire, Francis Lawrence was confirmed to direct the last two films in November 2012.[4]
Filming began in September 2013.[5] While filming in Atlanta, Georgia, it was revealed that both parts would be shot back-to-back.[5]
For the costumes, Christian Cordella, a costume designer from the first movie, returned to sketch the outfits for District 13.[6]

Reception[]
Box Office[]
In the domestic box office, Mockingjay - Part 1 grossed $337,135,885, making it the second highest grossing film of 2014, losing only to American Sniper.[7] Worldwide, the film earned $755,356,711, placing it fifth overall for 2014. The films that outearned it were Maleficent, Guardians of the Galaxy, The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies, and Transformers: Age of Extinction.[8]

Release[]
International premieres[]
Despite its American origins, Mockingjay - Part 1 was released earlier in other territories of the world, some early as November 19, 2014, and November 20, 2014.[9]

November 19, 2014 (Belgium, Egypt, Finland, France, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland (French), Ecuador)
November 20, 2014 (Austria, Bahrain, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Netherlands, Oman, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland (German), Syria, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, Australia, Cambodia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Russia/CIS, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, Vietnam)
November 21, 2014 (Bulgaria, Estonia, Iceland, Kenya, Latvia, Lithuania, Palestine, Poland, Turkey, United Kingdom, Aruba, Curaçao, Paraguay, Venezuela, West Indies, Mongolia, Pakistan, Taiwan)
November 27, 2014 (Bolivia)
November 28, 2014 (India)
January 23, 2015 (Sri Lanka)
February 8, 2015 (China)
June 5, 2015 (Japan)
Home media[]
Mockingjay - Part 1 was released on Digital HD February 17, 2015, and on March 6, 2015, on DVD.[10]

Special features[]
Blu-ray Combo PackStandard DVD
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 	 
Audio Commentary with Director Francis Lawrence and Producer Nina Jacobson
The Mockingjay Lives: The Making of the Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1 - feature-length documentary
Straight from the Heart: A Tribute to Philip Seymour Hoffman
Songs of Rebellion: Lorde on Curating the Soundtrack
Deleted Scenes
Lorde “Yellow Flicker Beat” Music Video
Insurgent Sneak Peek
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 	 
Audio Commentary with Director Francis Lawrence and Producer Nina Jacobson
Deleted Scenes
Insurgent Sneak Peek

Music[]
Main article: The Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 1 - Original Motion Picture Soundtrack
Videos[]
Promotional[]
President Snow's Panem Address - "Together as One" (4K)President Snow's Panem Address 2 - "Unity" (4K)The Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 (Jennifer Lawrence) - Teaser TrailerThe Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 - "5 Days” Trailer CountdownThe Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 – “Tomorrow” Trailer CountdownThe Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 – “The Mockingjay Lives” Official TrailerThe Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 (Jennifer Lawrence) - “Return to District 12”The Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 (Jennifer Lawrence) Final Trailer – “Burn”
TV Spots[]
The Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 (Jennifer Lawrence) Official TV Spot – “Courage”The Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 (Jennifer Lawrence) Official TV Spot – “Critics Rave”The Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 (Jennifer Lawrence) Official TV Spot – “The Hanging Tree”
Clips[]
The Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 (Jennifer Lawrence) – Official First ClipThe Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 (Jennifer Lawrence) – Official Second ClipThe Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 (Jennifer Lawrence) – Official Third ClipThe Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 (Jennifer Lawrence) – Official Fourth Clip
Interviews[]
The Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 1 - Julianne Moore TheHungerGamesExclusive.com Interview
Differences from the book[]
Main article: The Hunger Games: Mockingjay book to film differences
Trivia[]
This is the first Hunger Games film not to be released in IMAX.
There is a new logo to foreshadow Mockingjay Part 2 at the end of Mockingjay Part 1, like at the end of Catching Fire.
See also[]
The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Gallery
References[]


↑ London Premiere Of The Hunger Games “Mockingjay – Part 1”. Ikonlondonmagazine.com (November 14, 2014). Retrieved on September 15, 2019.

↑ Andrew Sims (2014-03-04). Lionsgate releases ‘Mockingjay – Part 1′ synopsis, confirms what you know. hypable.com. Retrieved on 2014-03-16.

↑ 3.0 3.1 'Mockingjay' to be split into two movies, release dates announced. EW.com (July 10, 2012). Retrieved on February 1, 2020.

↑ Exclusive: Francis Lawrence to Direct Remainder of ‘Hunger Games’ Franchise with Two-Part Adaptation of ‘Mockingjay'. Collider.com (November 1, 2012). Retrieved on February 1, 2020.

↑ 5.0 5.1 Rebecka Schumann (2013-09-24). 'Mockingjay' Movie Starts Filming In Atlanta; Jennifer Lawrence, Liam Hemsworth Spotted On 'The Hunger Games' Set [PHOTO]. ibtimes.com. Retrieved on 2014-01-24.

↑ 'Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 1′: Why You Shouldn't Expect 'Flamboyant' Costumes. Viacom International Inc. (November 27, 2013). Retrieved on February 1, 2020.

↑ https://www.boxofficemojo.com/year/2014/?grossesOption=totalGrosses

↑ https://www.boxofficemojo.com/year/world/2014/

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 - All Releases. Box Office Mojo. Retrieved on February 1, 2020.

↑ The Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Part 1 Comes to Digital HD, Blu-ray and On Demand. Coming Soon.net (January 22, 2015). Retrieved on February 1, 2020.





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





