

The Covey's house


	
		Location
	
	The Seam in District 12



	
		Inhabitants
	
	Lucy Gray BairdMaude Ivory BairdBarb Azure BairdTam AmberClerk Carmine CladeBilly Taupe Clade (formerly)ShamusLenore Dove Baird (SOTR)


	Appearances


	
		Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes
Sunrise on the Reaping





The Covey's house is where the Covey lived at the time of the 10th Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Description
2 History

2.1 10th Hunger Games
2.2 50th Hunger Games


3 Trivia
4 References



Description[]
The small wooden house was located on the edge of the Seam in District 12, near the Meadow and the woods. The front yard was a dirt patch with wildflowers planted in an unorderly fashion, and at the back of the house, there was a "makeshift stoop".[1]
Inside, the house was one large, open room with a lofted area for sleeping. The coal stove, sink, a shelf of dishware, and an "ancient" refrigerator all sat along the back wall, with a window and the back door. The right wall was lined with a clothes rack, and the Covey's musical instruments were arranged along the left wall. In terms of furniture, they had a table and a few chairs, and their television sat on top of a crate, its antenna rigged with aluminum foil.[1]

History[]
Sometime during the year of the 9th Hunger Games, the old man who was paid to take care of the six Covey children died of black lung.[2] After that, it is unknown whether the Covey stayed in the same house— making this particular dwelling originally his— or if they'd moved and this was their new home.
The next January, the house's pipes froze, so the Covey had to melt down chunks of ice on the stove for water. Once it snowed, they were able to melt down the snow instead with less trouble.[1]

10th Hunger Games[]
During the 10th Hunger Games, the Covey caught very little of the coverage on their television. However, the night of interviews was a clear one in District 12, so Tam Amber was able to get it working. They watched Coriolanus Snow introduce Lucy Gray Baird,[1] and they saw her perform "The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird".[3] She intended the song as a message for them about how the reaping was rigged against her, and Billy Taupe Clade's role in it.[4]
About two weeks after Lucy Gray was sent home from the Capitol, the Covey officially kicked out Billy Taupe. Rather than letting him inside, they tossed his belongings into the backyard for him to retrieve, consisting of "a pile of clothes and a few books". This was the same day that Coriolanus and Sejanus Plinth visited the house for the first time.[1]

50th Hunger Games[]
Lenore Dove Baird lived there with her adoptive uncles, Clerk Carmine Clade and Tam Amber. She had the loft to herself.[5]

Trivia[]
Based on its proximity to the Meadow, this house was probably in the same part of the Seam as Katniss Everdeen's house.[6]
Victors' Village did not exist yet,[7] so despite Lucy Gray's status as a victor, she and the Covey never moved there.
If the house survived the 24 years between Sunrise on the Reaping and the trilogy, it probably would have been destroyed alongside the rest of the district in the bombing of District 12.[8]
While arranging to film in rural Poland for The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, filmmakers expressed interest in building the Covey's house underneath some trees. However, according to Francis Lawrence, the landowner was resistant to the idea because he believed there was Nazi gold buried underneath them, and he became suspicious that they were German spies trying to get the gold. The town's mayor and priest had to get involved. Ultimately, the compromise they reached was for filmmakers to build the set 30 feet away. The scene at the house ended up being cut regardless.[9]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 24

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 12

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 26

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 1

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 1

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes audio commentary by Francis Lawrence and Nina Jacobson






