

The Hunger Games: Illustrated Edition


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Author
	
	Suzanne Collins



	
		Cover artist
	
	Nico Delort



	
		Country
	
	United States



	
		Publisher
	
	Scholastic Press



	
		Publication date
	
	October 1, 2024



	
		ISBN
	
	ISBN 1339030608



	
		Pages
	
	368



	
		Followed by
	
	Catching Fire: Illustrated Edition



The Hunger Games: Illustrated Edition is an edition of The Hunger Games featuring more than 30 black-and-white illustrations by artist Nico Delort. It was released on October 1, 2024.[1]

Contents

1 Trivia
2 Gallery

2.1 Part One: The Tributes
2.2 Part Two: The Games
2.3 Part Three: The Victor


3 References



Trivia[]
Scholastic announced the illustrated edition on January 18, 2024. It was available for preorder from retailers the same day.
Delort created the illustrations on scratchboard, wanting to mimic the look of 19th-century engravings, and used parallel lines to add tone.[2]
Although they had seen the films when they were first released, Delort intentionally chose not to rewatch them while working on their illustrations to avoid being subconsciously influenced by the visuals.[3]
Plants are integrated into the edition as decorative elements. The arrowheads were inspired by katniss leaves, which also appear in the endpapers. Additionally, each part opener features a flower after which a character is named, with Primrose, Rue, and Katniss being featured on Part 1, 2, and 3 respectively.[3]
Chapter 18, Rue's death, was the hardest for Delort to illustrate. They commented that "it had to be an illustration that would make readers pause, while at the same time being understated and showing respect and reverence for Rue."[3]
Gallery[]
Part One: The Tributes[]
Part One openerMrs. Everdeen, Katniss Everdeen, Primrose Everdeen, and Buttercup at home before the reaping.The reaping ceremony.Katniss receiving the mockingjay pin.Katniss, Peeta Mellark, Haymitch Abernathy, and Effie Trinket on the train.Katniss and Peeta in the chariot.Lavinia attending to a meal.Katniss shooting during her private Gamemaker session.Katniss's first time meeting Gale Hawthorne in the woods.Katniss twirling in her interview dress.
Part Two: The Games[]
Part Two openerKatniss and Peeta on the roof of the Training Center.The Cornucopia.Peeta and the Career Tributes.Rue in a tree.Katniss running after collecting the bow.Rue sitting with Katniss at a campfire, admiring her pin.Katniss watching Foxface steal from the Career camp.A Capitol hovercraft retrieving the body of the District 3 boy.Katniss sitting beside a dying Rue in a field of wildflowers.
Part Three: The Victor[]
Part Three openerPeeta camouflaged into the river bank.Katniss and Gale Hawthorne introducing Prim to her goat, Lady.Thresh standing over Katniss, holding a rock.Katniss and Peeta in the cave.Katniss hunting in the arena.Cato running from the wolf mutts.Katniss and Peeta threatening to eat nightlock berries.Katniss fixing Haymitch Abernathy's tie before the victor crowning.The coronation ceremony with President Snow.
References[]


↑ An illustrated edition of the first ‘Hunger Games’ novel will come out Oct. 1 - AP News

↑ https://www.instagram.com/p/DAbwLertTSU

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 Peek Inside The Hunger Games Illustrated Edition: 'It Felt a Little Daunting' Says Artist Nico Delort (Exclusive)






