The Hunger Games: Training Days is a board game based on The Hunger Games. In this game, players try to get the most approval ratings. It is similar to the Training Center scenes in The Hunger Games and Catching Fire.
There are two editions to the game. The earlier edition predate the promotional material for the film adaptation.

Contents

1 Directions
2 Gallery
3 Trivia
4 References



Directions[]
The game requires 2-6 players. Each player chooses a district to represent and a gender. The players take the appropriate Tribute card. Each Tribute card gives the players ratings from one (low) to eight (high) in four attributes: strength, ability, cunning, and charm. The Challenge deck is shuffled and a player is chosen to go first. The players will take their turns in clockwise order.
The first player reveals a number of Challenge cards equal to the number of players. Each player has three effort tokens: one (low), three (medium), and six (high). Each player, in turn, will assign one effort token face down to any Challenge card. After all the players have assigned their effort tokens, the events on the Challenge cards are resolved. One Challenge card at a time, the effort tokens are revealed and the winner of the event is determined. Each player total one's own Effort tokens plus the Attribute rating called for by the card, plus alliance bonuses (from Tribute cards not already in play) plus a die roll. The player with the highest total wins the event and the approval rating associated with the event.
Three End of Day cards are shuffled into the Event deck at the beginning of the game. Whenever an End of Day card is revealed, then all the event cards are shuffled with the End of Days cards. Before the game begins, the players determine how many days they will last. When that number of End of Day cards has been revealed, then the game is over and the player who has the highest approval rating is the winner.[1]

Gallery[]
Training Days tributes for districts 1, 2, and 3Training Days tributes for districts 4, 7, and 8Training Days tributes for districts 10, 11, and 12
Trivia[]
In the first edition, the tributes from districts 5, 6, and 9 are not featured in the game.
This is before the time the industries of the three aforementioned districts were known.
In the second edition, District 5 was included, but District 10 has been excluded. Districts 6 and 9 are still excluded in both editions.
Several tributes have been shown to excel at certain attributes:
Rue is the most agile tribute.
The District 3 female is the most cunning in both editions.
The District 4 male and District 5 male are the most charming in the first edition and second edition respectively.
Thresh is the strongest tribute.
References[]


↑ https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/71837/hunger-games-training-days






