

Tim O'Brien


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Tim O'Brien



	
		Birthday
	
	November 16, 1964



	
		Birthplace
	
	New Haven, Connecticut, USA



Tim O'Brien is an American artist who illustrated the covers of The Hunger Games trilogy, The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, and Sunrise on the Reaping, as well as the alternate mockingjay design for the The Hunger Games Collector's Edition.
His illustrations have appeared in several magazines, including Time, Newsweek, and Der Spiegel. He has also designed several postage stamps for the US Postal Service. O'Brien is an adjunct professor in Undergraduate Communications Design at the Pratt Institute.[1]

The Hunger Games[]
Although characterizing himself as a "traditional painter," O'Brien decided to do the designs digitally, which helped out due to the trilogy's popularity.[2] He is married to Elizabeth Parisi, Creative Director for Hardcovers at Scholastic, who was responsible for the cover designs. She has characterized the creation of the iconic mockingjay pin as a collaboration. According to O'Brien, "It is not just a picture of a bird. It is something vulnerable. It is a symbol of the main character, Katniss, who is tough and beautiful at the same time." It really says a lot about the heroine.[3] Before the final version was adopted, he had submitted a design for an arrow and an alternate version of the logo that had the mockingjay's right wing pierced with a chain. It could have meant that for the first and second books, Katniss is under the power of the Capitol; she is being chained to their power.[4]
The process of designing the cover for Catching Fire did not take as long, although O'Brien created several versions of the mockingjay in flight. The circle in the background was first conceived as a clock, then a ring of fire, before it evolved into a target.[5]

External links[]
Official website
Blog
 Tim O'Brien on Wikipedia
References[]


↑ Professor Tim O'Brien Swept Up in Hunger Games Success as Logo Becomes Ubiquitous

↑ 'Mockingjay' by Suzanne Collins

↑ ‘Hunger Games’ logo is brainchild of Brooklyn couple

↑ Hunger Games

↑ Catching Fire






