

Tippet


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	16 (film)[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Career Tribute (book)



	
		Home
	
	District 4



	
		Weapon
	
	Throwing knifes (training)Bow and arrows (training)Serrated sword (film)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female



	
		Height
	
	5'4" (film)[1]




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games (film)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Tara Macken (film)Jessica Lee (stage)





Tippet was the female tribute from District 4 who participated in the 74th Hunger Games. She was also a Career Tribute in The Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 74th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Training
1.1.2 Cornucopia bloodbath
1.1.3 The Games




2 Trivia

2.1 Name


3 Gallery
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did the District 4 female play in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 74th Hunger Games, the District 4 female served as a Career Tribute, a role indicating specialized training for the Games. She wielded a variety of weapons, including a serrated sword, throwing knives, and bow and arrows. Despite her preparation, she ultimately perished in the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was the significance of the District 4 female's aqua-colored gown and starfish pins?
						
				
				
					
						The aqua-colored gown and starfish pins worn by the District 4 female in the 74th Hunger Games symbolized her district's fishing industry. This attire represented her district's connection to the sea and marine life, highlighting their unique identity and culture.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Did the District 4 female volunteer for the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						As a Career Tribute from District 4, the female participant in the 74th Hunger Games likely volunteered for the event. In districts such as hers, volunteering is prevalent due to the honor associated with participating in the Games. Children in these districts often undergo training in combat and survival skills to prepare for the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How was the District 4 female portrayed in the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						The 16-year-old District 4 female tribute in the 74th Hunger Games was a Career Tribute, portrayed by Tara Macken in the film. She wielded a serrated sword in the film and used throwing knives and bow and arrows during training. She did not survive the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What training did the District 4 female undergo for the 74th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In preparation for the 74th Hunger Games, the District 4 female, a Career Tribute, received comprehensive training. Her training involved mastering several weapons such as a serrated sword, throwing knives, and a bow and arrows. Being a Career Tribute from a wealthier district like District 4, she was trained throughout her life for participation in the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The District 4 tributes in their tribute parade costumes. 		 	  
74th Hunger Games[]
Having been born and raised in District 4, she trained since childhood and possibly volunteered for the Games. She was portrayed to be one of the older, stronger tributes in 74th Hunger Games.
During the Tribute Parade, she and her district partner were dressed in an aqua-colored gown with starfish pins, representing their district, fishing. 

Training[]
In The Hunger Games film, she is first seen when in a circle with the other tributes. She stands to the left of the District 6 female and the right of the District 5 male when Atala is giving instructions and talking about survival. Later when Marvel is using a spear to fight with the trainer, she is seen behind learning how to throw a knife with her trainer. The next day, Cato slices a dummy hand off. Slightly behind him, she is there, trying to get in the gauntlets. Behind her is the District 7 female. She was also seen using a bow and arrow behind Peeta, when the Careers teased Peeta.

Cornucopia bloodbath[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Tippet running with a bag. 		 	 
In the book, being a Career, she presumably killed and/or injured several tributes.
In the film, she wasn't a part of the Careers and was instead killed by them shortly after the bloodbath. She stood on the pedestal next to Clove and the District 8 male. When the gong rings she runs towards the Cornucopia. The District 6 female tries to attack her with a serrated sword but she brutally beats her, pushes her to the floor, and grabs the sword. She slashes the District 3 female's leg with the sword. She gets attacked by Cato and thrown over a crate but manages to escape him. She is spotted by Katniss as she grabs a backpack and heads for the forest. 

The Games[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Cato pushing Tippet during the 74th Hunger Games bloodbath 		 	 
In the film, she's hunted down shortly after the bloodbath and is killed by the Careers. She placed 13th out of 24. However in the book, she and the other Careers hunted down and killed the District 8 female. After the forest fire the Gamemakers had created, she and the Careers found Katniss in a lake, tending to her burns that she sustained. They chased Katniss up a tree, but since Katniss was too high up and none of the Careers were able to reach her, Peeta suggested that they wait until morning for Katniss to come down. They agreed and camped under the tree.
However, Katniss sent a tracker jacker nest down onto the Careers, and both Glimmer and Tippet received numerous stings. Unlike Glimmer, who was swatting at the tracker jackers frantically, Tippet dropped her belongings and ran out of sight to try and make it to the lake, leaving Glimmer to be stung to death before she could escape. Several minutes after Glimmer died, Tippet had collapsed from the many stings she had received and died. She was picked up by the hovercraft before Glimmer, due to Katniss' close proximity to Glimmer's corpse while trying to take her bow and arrows. She placed 11th out of 24. Rue mentioned her death to Katniss later on Day 9, while she was recovering from her tracker jacker stings.

Trivia[]
In the film, she weighs 105 pounds and is 16 years old. Her odds were initially 10-1[1] and then 9–1.
In the movie, the scoreboard behind Caesar and Claudius, it is seen that she died 17 minutes and 23 seconds into the Games.
In the arena, she wore a seastorm blue jacket and tied her hair in two pigtails.
In one of the trailers, she's seen throwing a knife in the training center on Marvel's right side.
In the film, she dies after the Cornucopia bloodbath and placed 13th, but when Heddle was killed, on the scoreboard behind Caesar it can be seen that she was the 2nd dead.
In the book, she died in the tracker jacker attack along with Glimmer. She placed 11th in the book and 13th in the movie.
She is Katniss’s second ever kill.
Her actress, Tara Macken, was a stunt performer in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire.
In Catching Fire, during the Victory Tour, two women and an unknown third person can be seen standing in front of her portrait, which means she had a mother, at least one female relative or sibling and an unknown third sibling. Her district partner's family is cut off, implying he only had one family member.
Name[]
When asked on Twitter about her character's name, her actress replied that it was Marina.[2]
In The Hunger Games On Stage, her name is Tippet. In fly fishing, the tippet is a section that connects the "leader" to the fly.
Gallery[]
Tippet's ID CardTippet talking to trainersThe tracker jacker hive that eventually led to her death.Hologram of Tippet
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 File:Statsreference.png

↑ https://twitter.com/taramacken/status/237649805185257473






