

Titus

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute[1]



	
		Home
	
	District 6[1]



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased[1]




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male[1]




	Appearances


	
		Book Mentioned
	
	The Hunger Games





Titus was the male tribute from District 6 during an unknown Hunger Games "a few years" prior to the 74th. He was infamous for committing acts of cannibalism.[1]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death


2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What led Titus to commit acts of cannibalism during the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Titus, a District 6 tribute, resorted to cannibalism during an unspecified Hunger Games. His savage conduct in the arena, including attempts to consume his victims, led to his infamy. The Gamemakers had to stun him electrically to prevent him from eating the bodies. His actions, despite the absence of arena rules, were not well-received by the Capitol audience. The Gamemakers, to avoid a cannibal victor, allegedly orchestrated an avalanche that killed Titus.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How did the Gamemakers control Titus' savage behavior in the arena?
						
				
				
					
						Titus, a tribute in the Hunger Games, exhibited savage behavior, including cannibalism. To control this, the Gamemakers used electrical stunning to recover the bodies of his victims before consumption. The Capitol audience found cannibalism distasteful, leading to Titus' death in a Gamemaker-orchestrated avalanche, establishing a precedent against cannibalism in the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How is Titus remembered in the history of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the annals of the Hunger Games, Titus is notorious for his acts of cannibalism during a game held before the 74th edition. His death, caused by an avalanche thought to be set up by the Gamemakers, ensured that a cannibalistic 'lunatic' wouldn't win. This incident established that cannibalism was unacceptable in the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What district was Titus a tribute for in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games, Titus represented District 6. His participation was marked by infamous acts of cannibalism.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Katniss Everdeen recalled Titus when thinking of "those raging beast tributes, the kind who tries to eat someone's heart after they've killed them." While in the arena, he went "completely savage" and tried to eat the bodies of his victims. As a result, the Gamemakers had to electrically stun him so they could retrieve bodies before he consumed them. Although there were no rules in the arena, cannibalism did not play well with the Capitol audience.[1]

Death[]
Titus was eventually killed in an avalanche, which was thought to have been set up by the Gamemakers to ensure that the victor was not a cannibalistic "lunatic". This set a precedent that cannibalism would not be tolerated in the Games.[1]

Etymology[]
The name Titus may be a reference to the Shakespeare play "Titus Andronicus", in which the titular character goes insane after the rape of his daughter, Lavinia. Though the character in the play does not commit cannibalism himself, he kills his daughter's rapists and tricks their mother into eating the remains.

Trivia[]
Titus is the only known cannibal tribute.
Titus was the first named District 6 citizen in the series, and he would be the only one until Otto and Ginnee's appearance in The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes.[2]
The prequel novel revealed that some Capitol citizens had to resort to cannibalism during the Dark Days, when rebels cut off food supply to the city.[3] This could be a contributing factor to the audience's discomfort at witnessing it in the Games.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 The Hunger Games, Chapter 10

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





