

Trajan Heavensbee


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Hilarius and Plutarch Heavensbee (descendants)



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Mentioned
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Mentioned
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Francis Lawrence







"Trajan Heavensbee. I'm his great-, great- —I can never remember how many greats. Anyway, he was one of my grandfathers."
—Plutarch Heavensbee to Haymitch Abernathy[src]
Trajan Heavensbee is a direct ancestor of Plutarch Heavensbee. He was mentioned on a monument inside Heavensbee Hall, honoring him as the "Father of Panem".[1]

Contents

1 Legacy
2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 References



Legacy[]
Trajan had a grand library in the Heavensbee mansion that was still in use during Plutarch's lifetime. Above the fireplace was a portrait of Trajan with a white beard, smiling while holding an open book. Plutarch considered him the only ancestor "who's been of any use". Haymitch Abernathy talked to President Snow in the library and when Snow started violently vomiting, Haymitch wondered what Trajan would have thought of that.[2]

Etymology[]
Trajan was the name of a Roman emperor who expanded the Roman Empire until it encompassed more territory than it ever had before. "Heavensbee" likely refers to the spiritual domain of Heaven.

Trivia[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Peter Dinklage in front of the plaque. 		 	 
Trajan Heavensbee was first introduced to the franchise on a monument in Heavensbee Hall, shown briefly in The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes. He was not mentioned in the books until Sunrise on the Reaping, published in 2025.
His monument was modeled after the face of Francis Lawrence, who directed the film and three of its four predecessors. Lawrence was embarrassed by how large the monument was, so he tried to block it by putting Peter Dinklage in front of it in the reaping scene.[3]
References[]


↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 9

↑ The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes audio commentary by Francis Lawrence and Nina Jacobson







