

Treech


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12–18



	
		Also known as
	
	Treacherous Treech (by Lucky Flickerman)Lumberjack (by Coral)



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 7



	
		Weapon
	
	Ax



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Hiroki Berrecloth







"Maybe Treech's lumber district background had given him some familiarity with snakes. The second they erupted from the tank, he'd turned on his heel and sprinted for the stands. He bounced up the debris hill like a goat and kept moving, hurdling over seats as he ascended."
—Treech escaping from the snake muttations.[src]
Treech was the male tribute from District 7 in the 10th Hunger Games. His mentor was Vipsania Sickle.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 10th Hunger Games
1.2 Death
1.3 Film adaptation


2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 Gallery
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What does the name 'Treech' mean in the context of the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the Hunger Games universe, 'Treech' originates from the word 'tree'. This aligns with the series' naming pattern where characters from certain districts bear names linked to plants or agriculture. Treech, despite not securing a weapon initially, was a crafty and lethal participant, relying heavily on other tributes throughout the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who portrayed Treech in the Hunger Games film adaptation?
						
				
				
					
						In the film adaptation of 'The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes', the character Treech was brought to life by actor Hiroki Berrecloth.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					How old was Treech when he became the male tribute for District 7 in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Treech, the male tribute from District 7 in the 10th Hunger Games, was between 12 and 18 years old at the time of his participation.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What is the significance of Treech's mentor, Vipsania Sickle, in his Hunger Games journey?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Treech's mentor, Vipsania Sickle, was a strategic guide. Her satisfaction when Treech surfaced after his district partner's death, saving her sponsor gift funds, indicates her resourceful mentorship. Her family's love for competition suggests she fostered a competitive spirit in Treech.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Treech at the reaping. 		 	 
Treech grew up in District 7 and became his district's male tribute in the Reaping for the 10th Hunger Games.[1] Along with the other tributes, Treech was taken to the Capitol in a dirty cattle car. From there, they were dumped into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2] While in the zoo, Treech made a good show of juggling three walnuts in an attempt to receive more food from the Capitol citizens.[3]

10th Hunger Games[]
On the first day of the Games, Treech sneakily stole Dill's two bottles of water she had received by sponsors. While Dill's mentor, Felix Ravinstill, said that the action was harsh, Treech's mentor, Vipsania Sickle, was pleased as it saved her money for more sponsor gifts.[4] Treech emerged once again after his district partner, Lamina died, by taking her ax, now armed with a weapon.[5] Treech later attempted to kill the District 3 duo of Circ and Teslee, but they noticed him and ran. However, all three of them stopped to look at the snake tank dropped by Dr. Volumnia Gaul. When the tank had burst, Treech ran right away, which saved his life unlike Circ, whose moment of confusion cost his life. He managed to climb out onto the narrow shelf over the scoreboard.[6]
His first kill would be Teslee while she was distracted by having just succeeded in killing Mizzen. The screens were closed onto Teslee, so no one noticed Treech until it was too late as he dug his ax into her skull. He then collected a dozen parcels of food and withdrew behind the barricade.[7] Treech later tried to kill Lucy Gray Baird on the final day of the Games, but failed.

Death[]
When Treech attempted to attack Lucy Gray, he swung out from behind the barricade with his ax and caught her wrist. However, she dodged the blow, diving towards him and pulling him into what appeared like an embrace. In the process, she dropped a snake mutt down his shirt, and it killed him as he smashed it into the ground. He reached third place.[7]

Film adaptation[]
He seemed to be allied with Lamina, his district partner, before Coral—who referred to him as "lumberjack"—recruited him. She said only Treech was invited to the alliance. He hesitated between Coral and Lamina, but ultimately left his district partner behind and joined Coral's alliance along with Mizzen and Tanner. Lucky Flickerman referred to him as "the traitor", reminding everyone that he had decided to ditch Lamina. This implies some sort of prior connection between the District 7 tributes.
When the gong rang, Treech ran towards the pile of weapons but was pushed by Panlo. Treech began fighting several tributes until he saw Lucy Gray Baird, trying to kill her with his ax, but she managed to dodge his blows. He was cut by Sol's knife, allowing Lucy Gray to run away as he cried out. He continued fighting until his alliance chased Lucy Gray and Jessup Diggs into the tunnels. The District 12 tributes narrowly escaped through a door, but Treech's alliance attacked the other tributes there, killing them.
They continued to inspect the tunnels until night, when Treech grabbed Otto's body out of the rubble. During the night, the group saw Coriolanus Snow and Sejanus Plinth running towards the exit and they all decided to chase him, not stopping even when Bobbin was killed. After Coriolanus and Sejanus escaped, the tributes returned to the center of the arena. The next day, the four had cornered Lucy Gray when Coriolanus sent her several drones with water. The drones crashed into the alliance, and Lucy Gray was able to escape.
The group then attacked Lamina. Treech stayed under the beam, hesitating to kill his district partner and seeming extremely guilty about it, but did not try to stop the attack. When the alliance turned around to retrieve the water, they saw Lucy Gray and went after her, although she found shelter in a ventilation shaft. Treech witnessed as Tanner began to reproach Coral and was punished by a trident to the chest. Treech, Coral, and Mizzen stood below Lucy Gray as she ventured through the ducts, and Lucy Gray dropped rat poison into Treech's eyes. Coral jammed her trident into the vent until Lucy Gray fell out. Affected by the poison, Treech began to cough, ultimately falling to the ground and dying. Treech placed 6th.[8] Spectators were unsure about what had happened, assuming Coral had gotten rid of him.

Physical description[]
Treech had black hair.[4]

Etymology[]
Treech's name comes from the word "tree."

Trivia[]
Treech was mainly reliant on other tributes throughout the Games.
Treech has the most failed attempts at killing other tributes (2), being Circ and Teslee, and Lucy Gray. However, he proves to be quite sneaky and deadly despite not grabbing a weapon at the Games's start, a similar tactic to a future District 7 victor, Johanna Mason.
His betrayal of Lamina even seemed to be looked down upon by the Capitol, as Lucky Flickerman called him "Treacherous Treech".[8]
There has been much speculation about Lamina and Treech's relationship before the Games, although Treech's actor, Hiroki Berrecloth, stated in an interview he didn't believe them to be friends before the Games.[9]
In the same interview, Berrecloth stated that he imagined Treech's mother to be very strict and loving, which would have instilled the idea within Treech and any siblings that they had to work hard to get anywhere in the world. Berrecloth also imagined that Treech was the middle child, had to work in the lumber industry at a very young age, and didn't attend school. He didn't think Treech was a "naturally violent character", but that other tributes perceived his strength.[9]
Gallery[]
Treech and Lamina in the Capitol Zoo.Treech's face on the monitors.Concept art of Treech and Lamina's costumes.
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 6

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 18

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 19

↑ 7.0 7.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20

↑ 8.0 8.1 The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes

↑ 9.0 9.1 The Permanent Rain Press Interview with Hiroki Berrecloth | The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes on YouTube




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





