

University


	
		Location
	
	The Capitol



	
		Inhabitants
	
	University students and staff


	Appearances


	
		Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Mentioned
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping





The University was an institution of higher education located in the Capitol. Many students from the Academy later went on to study at the University. The tuition was high, though there were financial prizes available for those who could not afford it. These prizes were awarded to students who had performed well at the Academy.[1] Dr. Volumnia Gaul, who served as Head Gamemaker of the 10th Hunger Games, was a biology professor at the University[2] and also taught advanced classes in military strategy.[3]

History[]
Casca Highbottom and Crassus Snow attended the University together. During an assignment from Dr. Gaul's class where they had to create an extreme punishment for the districts, the two of them paired up. Highbottom created the Hunger Games, and Snow turned it in without his permission, wanting the grade. After the Dark Days, Dr. Gaul took out his proposal and introduced it to Panem.[3]
When Tigris graduated from the Academy, she passed up the opportunity to attend the University so she could pursue her dream of becoming a designer.[1]
Remus Dolittle graduated from the University shortly before the reaping of the 10th Hunger Games. He became Gamemaker-in-Training after his family pulled many favors to get him the position.[4]
Coriolanus Snow had long expected to attend the University, like many of his peers, but his perilous financial situation put his chances in jeopardy. He hoped that a good showing as a mentor in the 10th Hunger Games would provide him with a financial prize that would enable him to attend.[1] Later, when Casca Highbottom asked Coriolanus about his plans after the Games, he responded that he hoped to go on to University and would pay the tuition if not granted a prize, but Highbottom only laughed at him.[5]
After Sejanus Plinth entered and emerged from the arena, he and his father, Strabo Plinth, announced that they would be giving a prize for a full ride to the University to the mentor whose tribute won the Hunger Games. This was done in an attempt to bury Sejanus's rebellious behavior, and led to excitement and gratitude from the mentors.[6]
Coriolanus's expulsion from the Academy and enrollment as a Peacekeeper appeared to ruin his chance to attend the University.[7] Ultimately, however, Dr. Gaul manipulated his return to the Capitol and his enrollment at the University.[8] His schooling was paid for by Strabo Plinth, in the wake of the loss of his own son, Sejanus Plinth.[3]
The winter before the 50th Hunger Games, one of the students of the University dyed every fountain on campus pink while there was a shortage of face cream. It was received positively.[9]

Known Students[]
Dr. Volumnia Gaul (presumably)
Crassus Xanthos Snow
Casca Highbottom
Remus Dolittle
Coriolanus Snow
Proserpina Trinket
Vitus
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 2

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 16

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 21

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 30

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 12




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





