

Uprising of District 11


	
		Conflict
	
	Pre-Second Rebellion civil unrest



	
		Date
	
	Mid to late July, 74 ADD



	
		Place
	
	District 11



	
		Outcome
	
	Decisive Capitol victoryDestruction of property and resourcesRebels subdued


	Combatants


	
	The CapitolPeacekeepers



	
	District 11District 11 citizens





In The Hunger Games film, the uprising of District 11 was the first known uprising to have taken place since the Dark Days. It was a response to the death of Rue in the 74th Hunger Games.[1] 

Contents

1 Background
2 The Uprising
3 Trivia
4 References



Background[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The fence surrounding District 11 in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire. 		 	 
Even by the standards of Panem's other outer districts, District 11 was heavily impoverished, policed, and repressed.[2] Despite its industry being agriculture,[3] nearly all of their produce was shipped off to serve the Capitol's overwhelming greed. The local government was very strict, and its Peacekeepers were particularly brutal. For example, any citizen caught eating the crops would be publicly whipped, and Peacekeepers shot a developmentally disabled boy named Martin on sight for trying to keep a pair of night vision glasses to play with.[4]

The Uprising[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			District 11 returning Katniss's salute. 		 	 
During the 74th Hunger Games, District 11's 12-year-old female tribute, Rue, was fatally wounded by Marvel, the male tribute from District 1. After Katniss Everdeen killed him, she sang to Rue as she died, then covered the girl's wounds and wreathed her body with nearby flowers. Finally, Katniss performed District 12's three-finger salute. Moved by Katniss's act of kindness, citizens watching on a large screen in District 11 returned the gesture.[1]
A muscular man in his thirties (often thought to be Rue's father) then decided to attack a Peacekeeper, and other citizens quickly followed suit. They fought Peacekeepers and overturned bins of grain and other produce. The riot lasted until after dark, when Peacekeeper reinforcements arrived with batons, shields, and water cannons to quell the uprising. It can be assumed that the Capitol was able to subdue the uprising within a few days, then executed the instigators.[1]

  	 	 			  
Trivia[]
In the books, the first known uprising since the Dark Days was the uprising of District 8.[5] Despite careful planning and coordination on the part of the rebels, it was subdued within 48 hours, and suspected instigators were executed.[6]
In The Hunger Games novel, there was no riot, and the people of District 11 sent a sponsor gift of bread to Katniss as a symbol of gratitude.[7]
References[]

↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 The Hunger Games (film)

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 4

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 5

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 15

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 6

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 10

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 18






