

Urban Canville


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Mekyas Mulugeta







"Oh, make an effort."
—Urban Canville, grumbling about Lucretius Flickerman not remembering his name[src]
Urban Canville was a male resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. He was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. He was assigned the female tribute from District 3, Teslee.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Personality
3 Etymology
4 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Urban Canville play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						As a top-performing student at the Academy in the Capitol, Urban Canville was chosen as a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. His mentee was Teslee, the female tribute from District 3. Despite his efforts, Canville struggled to establish a connection with his tribute, resulting in their non-participation in the pre-games interviews.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Urban Canville's assigned tribute in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Urban Canville, an outstanding senior from the Academy in the Capitol, mentored Teslee, the female tribute from District 3.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why did Urban Canville and his tribute not appear at the interviews before the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Urban Canville, mentor for the 10th Hunger Games, struggled to engage with his tribute, Teslee. This resulted in their non-appearance at the pre-games interviews. The 10th Hunger Games saw interviews become voluntary after a Capitol Arena bombing, and the absence of prep teams meant tributes were not camera-ready.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What problems did Urban Canville face as a mentor in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						As a mentor in the 10th Hunger Games, Urban Canville struggled with his tribute's lack of engagement. His tribute, Teslee from District 3, was so unresponsive that they did not participate in the pre-Games interviews. The overall failure of the 10th Hunger Games, marked by a fatal bombing at the Capitol Arena, further complicated Canville's mentorship.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Urban Canville's relationship with his tribute, Teslee?
						
				
				
					
						Urban Canville, an outstanding student from the Academy, was chosen as a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. His assigned tribute was Teslee from District 3. Despite his efforts, Canville struggled to establish a connection with Teslee, leading to their absence from the pre-Games interviews.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Urban was one of several mentors who had problems getting his tribute to engage with him. As such, he and his tribute did not appear at the interviews held before the 10th Hunger Games. During the Games themselves, host Lucretius Flickerman had trouble remembering Urban's name, eventually coming up with "Turban." Hearing this, Urban complained that they should have gotten a professional to host the games. He was pleased at the initiative of Teslee and her fellow District 3 tribute, Circ, in salvaging the broken drones from an attempt to deliver sponsor water into the Capitol Arena, although he felt it would be more exciting if they had the controllers. Urban also criticized Reaper Ash, saying he didn't look very tough.[2]
He was delighted upon seeing how his tribute and Circ had modified the drones, telling his fellow mentors not to judge a book by its cover. He engaged his communicuff to send Teslee gifts. However, he was clearly taken aback when Teslee was taken out by Treech of District 7. He had to restrain himself to avoid snarling at Lepidus Malmsey, the reporter from Capitol News, and commented "That's it for me. Laugh a minute, wasn't it?" before leaving the Academy's Heavensbee Hall.[3]

Personality[]
Urban was very ill-tempered, and because of this, everyone was fine with resenting the perfect scores he achieved on calculus tests. He could also get angry easily, which was shown when he immediately snapped at one of Lucretius Flickerman's comments[2] and barely managed not to snarl at Lepidus Malmsey after his tribute was killed.[3] He also seemed to be ambitious and a perfectionist, as shown with his reaction to Teslee's performance in the Games.

Etymology[]
Urban comes from the Latin name Urbanus, meaning a citizen or city dweller. His surname, Canville, seems to be a habitational name from Northamptonshire.

References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 4

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ 3.0 3.1 The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






