

Velvereen


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12-18



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 1



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased (Shot by Peacekeepers)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Vara Kane







"Both pairs from Districts 1 and 2 had made for the hole blown open near the entrance. The District 1 kids had been shot dead..."
—Coriolanus Snow learning how Facet and Velvereen tried to escape.[src]
Velvereen was the female tribute from District 1 for the 10th Hunger Games. Her mentor was Palmyra Monty. She and her district partner Facet were shot down by Peacekeepers for attempting to flee amidst the Capitol Arena bombing.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Death


2 Etymology
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References



Biography[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Velvereen during the reaping. 		 	 
Velvereen lived in District 1 after the failed rebellion of the Dark Days and possibly before. She was reaped as tribute for the 10th Hunger Games on July 4th that year.[1] Velvereen and the other tributes were taken to the Capitol by train in dirty cattle cars. From there, they were transferred to a truck, which dumped them all into the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo.[2]

Death[]
While touring the Capitol Arena with her mentor Palmyra Monty and the other remaining 22 tribute-mentor pairs, several bombs planted by the rebels were detonated. These explosions created a new cracked opening by the entrance of the arena. Velvereen, along with her district partner Facet and the tributes from District 2, Sabyn and Marcus, used the resulting chaos as an opportunity for a possible escape. She was shot dead by Peacekeepers before she could reach the opening. 
Her body was later tied to a horse and dragged  down Scholars Road during Apollo and Diana Ring's funeral.[3]

Etymology[]
Velvereen's name may be a reference to velveteen, a type of cloth made to imitate velvet.

Trivia[]
Despite being reaped, Velvereen never competed in the 10th Hunger Games.
She was implied to be one of the stronger tributes, as Coriolanus Snow mentioned that with the deaths of the District 1 and 2 tributes, Lucy Gray's odds of winning significantly increased.
Velvereen is the only known female tribute from District 1 to not have blonde hair or light colored eyes.
Gallery[]
Velvereen in the Capitol Zoo.Concept art of Facet and Velvereen's costumes.Behind-the-scenes image of Vara Kane (Velvereen).
References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 3

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 10




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana





