

Vick Hawthorne

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	10[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	Student



	
		Home
	
	The Seam in District 12District 13 (briefly)



	
		Relatives
	
	Mr. Hawthorne (father)Hazelle Hawthorne (mother)Gale Hawthorne (older brother)Rory Hawthorne (older brother)Posy Hawthorne (younger sister)



	
		Fate
	
	Alive




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Book Mentioned
	
	The Hunger Games





Vick Hawthorne is the second-youngest child in the Hawthorne family.

Contents

1 Biography
2 Family
3 Physical description
4 Etymology
5 Trivia
6 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What is the significance of Vick Hawthorne's role in the Hawthorne family?
						
				
				
					
						Vick Hawthorne, aged 10, is the second-youngest of the Hawthorne family, living in the Seam of District 12. He is Gale and Rory's younger brother, and Posy's older brother. His family survived the District 12 bombing. His name, possibly a shortened form of 'Victor', signifies survival, as in the Hunger Games, only victors survive.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What happened to Vick Hawthorne after the bombing of District 12?
						
				
				
					
						Vick Hawthorne survived the District 12 bombing and was evacuated to District 13 with his family. He was a student, too young to work or take tesserae. He was the youngest son of Hazelle Hawthorne and had three siblings - Gale, Rory, and Po.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who took care of Vick Hawthorne after his father's death?
						
				
				
					
						Vick Hawthorne, the youngest son in his family, was cared for by his mother, Hazelle Hawthorne, following his father's death in a mine collapse. Vick, who was a student and too young to work, was one of Hazelle's four children she had to look after.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Vick Hawthorne's life like in District 12?
						
				
				
					
						Vick Hawthorne, a 10-year-old student, resided in the Seam of District 12 with his family. After his father's death in a mine collapse, his mother single-handedly raised him and his siblings. Vick's family was among the survivors of the District 12 bombing, leading to their evacuation to District 13.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
He lived in the Seam of District 12 with his family of five.[1] They were among the few people who survived the bombing of District 12, and they were evacuated to District 13.[2]
Vick was too young to work or take tesserae, and he was a student at his school.

Family[]
Vick was the youngest son of Hazelle Hawthorne. His father died in a mine collapse, the same one that killed Katniss Everdeen's father, leaving his mother to take care of her four children alone. He was the younger brother of Gale and Rory, and the older brother to Posy.[1]

Physical description[]
Vick presumably has dark hair and olive skin, typical to residents of the Seam.

Etymology[]
Vick might be a diminutive version of the name Victor. This is significant because victors are the only survivors of the Hunger Games. His surname comes from hawthorn bushes or trees, but could also be a reference to author Nathaniel Hawthorne.

Trivia[]
All four Hawthorne siblings have four-letter names: Gale, Rory, Vick, and Posy.
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Catching Fire, Chapter 1

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 1





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





