 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Victory Tour poster 		 	 
The Victory Tour for the 74th Hunger Games celebrated co-victors Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark. It began in District 11, cycled through all of the other districts, and ended in District 12, Katniss and Peeta's home district.

Contents

1 Participants
2 The Tour

2.1 District 11
2.2 District 10–4
2.3 District 3
2.4 District 2
2.5 District 1
2.6 The Capitol
2.7 District 12


3 Trivia
4 References



Participants[]
The 74th Hunger Games victors Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark were featured on the tour. They were accompanied by their mentor, Haymitch Abernathy; their escort, Effie Trinket; their stylists, Cinna and Portia, and their prep teams— Katniss's consisting of Flavius, Octavia, and Venia.

The Tour[]
District 11[]
District 11 was the first stop in the nationwide tour. Katniss noted on her way in how high the watchtowers were, how great the security was, how scarce the people were, and how shabby the houses looked (even compared to those in the Seam).

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The Victory Tour arriving in District 11. 		 	  
After leaving the train, the team and victors were forced into an armored truck. Once they arrived at the Town Square, they realized that only a very small portion of the town was present; most of the rest were completing the harvest. A small platform was erected at the bottom of the stage for the dead tributes' families. 

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			District 11 		 	 
The mayor gave a speech in Katniss and Peeta's honor, and two girls handed them each a bouquet of flowers. After a scripted reply, Peeta began his personal comments about Rue and Thresh, then added that he and Katniss would be giving the tributes' families one month of their tribute winnings for the duration of their lives. The mayor presented Katniss and Peeta with a plaque. Shortly before the end of the ceremony, Rue's sister gave Katniss a reproachful look, prompting Katniss to give a sentimental speech. Following this, an old man whistled Rue's four-note song and signaled the crowd to give the three-finger salute, an old District 12 ritual to show admiration and respect. Katniss was then hurried inside, but returned to the veranda to find two Peacekeepers shooting a bullet into the old man's head before the crowd.[1] Two bullets rang out moments afterward, and Katniss suspected that either one of Rue's sisters or Thresh's grandmother had been killed.[2]

District 10–4[]
Districts 10 through 4 were part of the same routine Katniss and Peeta did in District 11, with the exception that their speeches were provided by the Capitol, and no personal remarks were made. Districts 8, 4 and 3 cheered Katniss' name in vengeance and fury rather than a celebration.[2] Katniss wore a green dress in District 5, which Annie Cresta, a District 4 victor, later wore at her wedding.[3]

74th Victory Tour, District 374th Victory Tour, District 474th Victory Tour, District 81/3
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss in District 3 		 	 
District 3[]
For the District 3 male, only one woman—presumably his mother—was present, while four of the District 3 female's relatives attended.[4] District 3 was one of the districts that cheered for Katniss as a sign of rebellion.[2]

District 2[]
District 2 was hard for Katniss as Clove and Cato, District 2's tributes for that year, could have made it home together if it wasn't for Katniss and Peeta.[2] The two avoided eye contact with their families. In District 2, Katniss wore a deep blue velvet dress with diamonds.[5]

District 1[]
District 1 was, once again, "its own kind of awful" as Katniss personally killed Glimmer and Marvel, District 1's tributes.[2]

The Capitol[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss and Peeta at President Snow's mansion. 		 	 
The Capitol appearance began with the victor interviews. During this interview, Peeta, to the delight of the people of the Capitol, publicly proposed to Katniss. Katniss had suggested this, but Peeta was quite upset as he wanted it to be real. President Coriolanus Snow made a surprise appearance to congratulate Peeta and Katniss on their engagement. During the appearance, Snow hinted to Katniss that she failed to convince him.
The Victory Dinner was held in the president's mansion. The roof had been transformed to look like the night sky, just like it looked in District 12. Katniss tried to eat some of each of the never ending line of exquisite dishes, but failed after ten tables. Flavius handed Peeta a small bottle of clear liquid, which would make him vomit in order to empty his stomach and eat more food, but this disgusts the two victors and Peeta refuses.
Katniss discovered that her mockingjay pin had become a fashion accessory in the Capitol, and a variety of items had been crafted into its likeness. Portia, Peeta's stylist, introduced the victors to Plutarch Heavensbee, who then showed Katniss his mockingjay hologram watch and said his Gamemaker's meeting started at midnight. Although she failed to realize it at the time, this was a hint about the arena used in the upcoming Games. Heavensbee later told her that he wanted to gain her trust.[6]

District 12[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 	 
The celebrations in the winning tribute's district always occurred on the last day of the Harvest Festival. Since the Capitol threw the event, the entire district had full stomachs that night, which rarely happened. A dinner was held at Mayor Undersee's house for the victors and their families. After Katniss got ready for dinner, she stopped by the mayor's office, where she learned of the uprising of District 8 from his television.[6]

Trivia[]
According to The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, the Victory Tour did not exist up to and including the 10th Hunger Games,[7] so the very first tour was Mags Flanagan's, after she won the 11th Hunger Games.[8] This means that Katniss and Peeta's Victory Tour would have been the 64th to occur chronologically.
In The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, Katniss learned about the uprising on the train from the Capitol back to District 12 at the end of the tour. She was walking down the hallway late at night when she came to a stop outside a control room door to watch the footage.[4]
References[]


↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 4

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 Catching Fire, Chapter 5

↑ Mockingjay, Chapter 16

↑ 4.0 4.1 The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 15

↑ 6.0 6.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 6

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes

↑ MAGS, THE 11TH VICTOR - Capitol Couture






