 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark's Victory Tour poster. 		 	 
A Victory Tour was an annual occasion when the Capitol required the most recent victor to travel across Panem with their mentor, escort, prep team, and stylist. Designed to dishearten the districts and reinforce the Capitol's power over them, the tour was placed "almost midway" between the annual Hunger Games in order to keep the horror fresh and immediate.[1]

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Districts
1.2 The Capitol
1.3 Home district


2 History

2.1 11th Hunger Games
2.2 38th Hunger Games
2.3 50th Hunger Games
2.4 67th Hunger Games
2.5 74th Hunger Games


3 Trivia
4 References



Description[]
Before the Victory Tour commenced, the prep team and stylists were to arrive at the victor's residence in the Victors' Village, preparing them for public appearances.[2] The first appearance was a brief interview at their home in the Victors' Village, after which they immediately left for the districts.

Districts[]
Generally, the tour began in District 12, then went in descending district order to 1, then the Capitol. The victor's own district was skipped in the order and saved for a final celebration. The victor gave a speech in each location, written by their escort and mentor, typically giving thanks to the Capitol for their "generosity" and offered condolences to the fallen tributes' family members. They can also add their own personal comments if they had any allies from a particular district. Victors were also sometimes presented with plaques[3] or given tours of the places they visited. The victor would then attend a dinner before boarding the train again and going onto the next district.[4]

The Capitol[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Capitol feast at presidential mansion. 		 	 After appearances in the districts, the victor went to the Capitol for an interview with Caesar Flickerman, followed by a banquet at the president's mansion. The Capitol celebrated with a huge dinner with dancing and celebration. It was supposed to be the grandest of all the celebrations in the Victory Tour.[4] Effie Trinket mentioned that interviewers, photographers, Gamemakers, and high-ranking Capitol elites were in attendance.[5]
Home district[]
The tour concluded in the victor's home district. A large dinner would be held, courtesy of the Capitol, then a victory rally the next day in the town square marked the final day of the tour.[6]

History[]
11th Hunger Games[]
In The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Victory Tours had not yet been invented. This made Mags Flanagan, victor of the 11th Hunger Games, the first to embark on a Victory Tour, as revealed by her Capitol Couture posters.[7] The prequel novel's epilogue also indicated that her Games were the first to feature a monetary prize for the victor, a new house in the Victors' Village, and food parcels for the entire district.[8]Mags Flanagan's first Victory Tour poster.Mags' second poster.
38th Hunger Games[]
According to Capitol Couture, Porter Millicent Tripp was the victor of the 38th Hunger Games. During the final battle, she sustained a spinal injury, so she had to wear a halo brace throughout her tour.[9] Since Mags' tour was the first, this means that Porter's would have been the 28th to occur chronologically.Porter Millicent Tripp's first Victory Tour poster
50th Hunger Games[]
Effie Trinket found Haymitch Abernathy, victor of the 50th Hunger Games, on the morning that would begin the Victory Tour, sleeping with a knife in his hand. She apologized to him for his family's "accident" and Lenore Dove Baird's death by appendicitis, having swallowed the story made up by President Coriolanus Snow to cover his murder of Haymitch's family. She gave Haymitch coffee, cleaned up in a bathtub and then prepped by Proserpina Trinket and Vitus before boarding a train to District 11.
On the train, Haymitch discovered that Plutarch Heavensbee was there to record his Victory Tour. Haymitch drunk his way through the festivities in District 11 and was taken aside to a secret attic area by Plutarch, who informed him of certain bits of secret information and told Haymitch that he and others needed his help to one day overthrow the Capitol. Haymitch was skeptical of the idea and avoided speaking to him for the rest of the Victory Tour. At the end, he told Plutarch he had nothing to live for, stating that Plutarch thought he was a good person, but that he had done nothing but put the Heavensbee spin on Capitol propaganda. To this, Plutarch replied that he was at least still in the game.[10]

67th Hunger Games[]
Augustus Braun, also introduced by Capitol Couture, won the 67th Hunger Games. He was a very popular victor during his tour, and he was considered a figure of reconciliation between the districts and the Capitol.[11] Since Mags' tour was the first, this means that his would have been the 57th to occur.Augustus Braun's first Victory Tour posterAugustus's second poster
74th Hunger Games[]
Main article: Victory Tour (74th HG)
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss and Peeta's second poster. 		 	 
This was the 64th Victory Tour chronologically, and the first to ever celebrate dual victors, Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark. It took place during a period of civil unrest inspired by their rebellious actions during the Games, so they were under threat from President Snow to sell their love story not only to the districts, but to him, or he would retaliate against their families.[12]

Trivia[]
Since the reaping occurs on July 4th[13] and the Victory Tour is held "almost midway" between the Games, it most likely takes place 4-6 months later, sometime between the start of November and the end of January.
Katniss mentioned that District 12 always celebrated their Harvest Festival on the final day of the tour.[6] Her description of the holiday resembles American Thanksgiving, which is celebrated in mid-November.
References[]


↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 1

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 3

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 4

↑ 4.0 4.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 5

↑ The Hunger Games: Catching Fire

↑ 6.0 6.1 Catching Fire, Chapter 6

↑ MAGS, THE 11TH VICTOR - Capitol Couture

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Epilogue

↑ PORTER, THE 38TH VICTOR - Capitol Couture

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 27

↑ AUGUSTUS BRAUN, THE 67TH VICTOR - Capitol Couture

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 2

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 1






