 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Katniss and Peeta being crowned after the 74th Hunger Games. 		 	 
The Victor's Ceremony was an event in which the victor of that year's Hunger Games sat on a throne and watched a recap of the Games they just participated in. They were then interviewed and, soon after, crowned victor.

Contents

1 History

1.1 50th Hunger Games
1.2 74th Hunger Games


2 Trivia
3 References



History[]
From the 1st to the 10th Hunger Games, victors were not given any special attention by the Capitol; once they were removed from the arena, they were simply sent back to their district.

50th Hunger Games[]
Following his victory in the 50th Hunger Games, Haymitch Abernathy was held in the Capitol for an indeterminate period of days before it was finally decided to present him as the victor. He was presented by Caesar Flickerman, who described the Games as having been historic, unparalleled and unforgettable. Haymitch was freed of his shackles and presented to the audience, who gave him a standing ovation filled with mad cheers and hot tears. They called for him to show off the scar he had acquired in the arena, which he did. A heavily-edited recap of the events of the Games was then presented, carefully omitted everything Haymitch and the other tributes had done which would reflect negatively upon the Capitol. Afterwards, the anthem played as President Coriolanus Snow descended from a crystal platform and placed a golden crown upon Haymitch's head. "I guess Snow lands on top," commented Haymitch, to which Snow replied "Enjoy your homecoming."[1]

74th Hunger Games[]
After the 74th Hunger Games, Katniss Everdeen was dressed in a yellow dress. Peeta Mellark wore a yellow suit, as he needed to match Katniss. Their outfits represented candlelight, sticking to the fire theme, but in a more innocent way, to symbolize that Katniss was a young girl who was madly in love, instead of a rebellious victor like some Districts thought. Instead of sitting in a throne or two thrones, they sat in a love seat, since this was the first and only year the Games crowned two victors. President Coriolanus Snow gave the crown a twist and it separated into two halves that Katniss and Peeta could both wear. He wordlessly crowned Peeta first, and then Katniss.[2]

Trivia[]
In The Hunger Games film, there were two separate crowns which were gold and based on the laurel wreath, a symbol of martial victory in ancient Rome. Snow crowned Katniss first, then examined her mockingjay pin, which he did not do in the book. Katniss also saw the "twist of his false and angry smile". Katniss stated that she could smell blood from Snow's mouth.[3]
References[]


↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ The Hunger Games, Chapter 27

↑ The Hunger Games film






