

Vipsania Sickle


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	18 (The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes)



	
		Occupation
	
	Academy studentMentor (10th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	The Capitol



	
		Relatives
	
	Agrippina Sickle (aunt)Drusilla Sickle (unknown relation)




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Amélie Hoeferle





Vipsania Sickle was a female resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games. She was assigned the male tribute from District 7, Treech.[1]


	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What role did Vipsania Sickle play in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Vipsania Sickle, a top-performing Academy student from the Capitol, was chosen as a mentor. She guided Treech, the male tribute from District 7. In the film The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, Vipsania was portrayed by Amélie Hoeferle.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Vipsania Sickle's tribute in the 10th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 10th Hunger Games, Vipsania Sickle, an outstanding Academy student, mentored Treech, the male representative from District 7.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Why was Vipsania Sickle selected as a mentor for the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						Vipsania Sickle was chosen as a mentor for the 10th Hunger Games due to her status as one of the Academy's top-performing seniors and her competitive nature. Her role as a mentor involved guiding the tributes and preparing them for the Games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
Coriolanus Snow, wanting a guitar for his tribute, Lucy Gray Baird, to use for a performance at her interview, asked his classmates if they could lend one. The best result he got was a "maybe" from Vipsania. Coriolanus feared a trap, as Vipsania had inherited her aunt Agrippina's love of competition. He told her that she was a lifesaver, but secretly continued to search, finally securing a guitar from his neighbor Pluribus Bell.[2]
During the games, her tribute, Treech, snatched two water bottles that were sent as sponsor gifts for another tribute, Dill, who had failed to claim them. Vipsania commented that this was good thinking, as it saved her money, and she didn't have much to work with.[3] She was the only mentor who thought to bring bedding to sleep overnight in Heavensbee Hall at the Academy and thus slept comfortably in it while her fellow mentors sat sleeping in padded chairs. After Lucy Gray Baird killed Treech with a snake mutt she'd hidden in her skirt, Vipsania was escorted away by Lepidus Malmsey of Capitol News. She thanked the Gamemakers through gritted teeth.[4]

Etymology[]
Vipsania is the feminine form of the name Vipsanius, which is the Roman clan of Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa. Its most prominent female members were his descendants, including the first wife of the emperor Tiberius; she was exiled with her son and died of starvation. Additionally, her surname, Sickle, refers to a tool used to harvest crops.

References[]


↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 7

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 11

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 14

↑ The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Chapter 20




The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes


Main Characters

Coriolanus Snow • Lucy Gray Baird • Sejanus Plinth


Supporting Characters

Tigris • Grandma'am • Volumnia Gaul • Casca Highbottom • Clemensia Dovecote • Lysistrata Vickers • Festus Creed


Tributes

Facet • Velvereen • Marcus • Sabyn • Circ • Teslee • Mizzen • Coral • Hy • Sol • Otto • Ginnee • Treech • Lamina • Bobbin • Wovey • Panlo • Sheaf • Tanner • Brandy • Reaper • Dill • Jessup


Mentors

Livia Cardew • Palmyra Monty • Florus Friend • Io Jasper • Urban Canville • Persephone Price • Dennis Fling • Iphigenia Moss • Apollo Ring • Diana Ring • Vipsania Sickle • Pliny Harrington • Juno Phipps • Hilarius Heavensbee • Gaius Breen • Androcles Anderson • Domitia Whimsiwick • Arachne Crane • Felix Ravinstill


Groups

Academy • Covey • Peacekeepers • University • Capitol families


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Santino Fontana






