

Wellie

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	12-18 (50th Hunger Games)



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (50th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	District 6



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Female




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Rada Rae[1]





Wellie was one of two female tributes from District 6 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games.[2]

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 50th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Death




2 Physical description
3 Personality and traits
4 Etymology
5 Relationships

5.1 Haymitch Abernathy


6 Trivia
7 References



Biography[]
50th Hunger Games[]
Before the start of the games, Wellie and the rest of her district initially hesitated to join the Newcomers who were 
planning to counter the Career pack. The chariot carrying District 6 during the Tribute Parade was crashed into by that of District 12 after the horses were startled and bolted. When they arrived at training, they were bandaged up in a lot of gauze.[3]
At lunch during a day of training, they were bullied by the Careers. Wellie started crying so Haymitch Abernathy went over to befriend them but at first she recoiled in fear. She warmed up to Haymitch and apologized for the death of Louella McCoy. Haymitch assured her that he did not hold District 6 responsible for their chariot crash during the Tribute Parade. Haymitch gave her Louella's lunch box to make up for the one the Careers ruined. She and the others then decided to join the Newcomers and followed him back to the group. Haymitch dubbed them his "doves".[4]
While deciding on the name for the alliance, Wellie felt like the suggestions were trying to be too tough. She thought they should pick one that showed they weren't trained from birth to win like the Careers. She liked Haymitch's suggestion of the Newcomers. She and the rest of District 6 stuck with Haymitch like glue. Her token was an old bicycle bell.[4] Before the Games started, Haymitch told her he was leaving the Newcomers to survive on his own as he thought the Gamemakers had it in for him and thus he was too dangerous for them to be around. Haymitch told her he would never hurt her.[5]
When the Games started, Wellie joined the rest of the Newcomers on the mountain. She very quickly realized everything in the arena was poisonous.[6]
The games eventually came down to the final 3 Newcomers, Haymitch, Maysilee Donner, and Wellie. They were against the two remaining Careers, Silka Sharp and Maritte. Maysilee said that between her and Haymitch, one of them has to win, so they can paint their poster as the worst victor. Maysilee then agreed that Wellie would also be a good victor, so they should try and help find her. Haymitch later told Wellie that Maysilee said she would be a good victor, as she would be teaching a good lesson, and never stop being a Newcomer. After Maysilee's death, Haymitch was determined to find Wellie, and help her win, believing this was his final mission. Haymitch called out to Wellie, and was able to locate her by the sound of her bicycle bell token.

Death[]
On the last day in the arena, Haymitch hid a weak and starving Wellie under a tree with "cascading grape vines," while he attempted to retrieve dry kindling; it had rained the night prior, and most of the wood available was either too wet to ignite, or would smoke heavily. Wellie pleaded with Haymitch not to leave her, but Haymitch promised her that he would not be far. He left Wellie armed with Maysilee's dart gun, loaded with a single poisoned dart. Haymitch planned to blow a hole in the Cornucopia, and take out Silka, and then President Snow would kill him, so Wellie could be the victor. Haymitch returned after receiving a sponsor gift containing what he anticipated to be poisoned milk from President Snow (which he discarded), and an ornate picnic basket. He was met with the sight of a decapitated Wellie, whose body lay in a heap - her head in Silka's left hand, dripping blood onto the forest floor. Silka had decapitated her with her ax.[7] When confronted by Haymitch, Silka claimed Wellie attacked her, which was when he noticed a poison blow dart hanging harmlessly from Silka's sleeve.
After winning the Games, Haymitch watched a recap, seeing the footage of Wellie's death, along with Maysilee's and Maritte's had been edited and altered.

Physical description[]
Wellie was a bone-thin little girl. Like the others in her district, she had rickety limbs and looked like she'd never seen daylight. She had a "shrunken, glassy-eyed look" that reminded Haymitch of the Seam.[8] After she had suffered starvation for multiple days, she weighed under 60 pounds.[7]
Wellie, along with the other three tributes from District 6, wore "iridescent gray coveralls with wheel-shaped crowns" during the chariot rides.[9]

Personality and traits[]
Wellie was a very kind and emotional young girl who was very trusting of Haymitch. She must have been quite intelligent, as Haymitch assumed that she would quickly figure out everything in the arena was poisonous.[10]

Etymology[]
Possibly referencing wheels or "Wellingtons," travel shoes.

Relationships[]
Haymitch Abernathy[]
Wellie first met Haymitch during the first day of training for the 50th Hunger Games. He comforted her after she was bullied by the Careers and Wellie took an instant liking to Haymitch for his kindness. He also told her that he did not a grudge against her and the other tributes from her district for the death of his fellow tribute, Louella McCoy. They formed a friendship and became part of an alliance known as the "Newcomers".[4]
During the Games, Haymitch and Maysilee Donner agreed that Wellie would also make a good victor between the three of them. After Maysilee's death, Haymitch found and reunited with Wellie, taking care of her and decided to kill himself and Silka Sharp so Wellie could be crowned the victor. When Haymitch proceeded to get firewood, Wellie pleaded with Haymitch not to leave her, but Haymitch promised her that he would not be far, giving her Maysilee's dart gun to defend herself. Unfortunately, Wellie was killed by Silka, leaving Haymitch angry and devastated. He eventually managed to avenge Wellie by killing Silka which allowed him to win the Games.[7]

Trivia[]
Even though Wellie finished third in the Hunger Games, the Capitol heavily edited the footage in a recap afterwards. Wellie was heard screaming shortly after Maysilee Donner's death, then shown to die before Maritte, who was already dead. This would have made Wellie look like she finished fourth.
References[]


↑ Post by the official Hunger Games account (June 20, 2025).

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 8

↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 8

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 13

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 17

↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 24

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 23

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 5

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 16




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White





