

Whitney Peak


	
		
		
	
	



	
		Birth name
	
	Whitney Peak



	
		Character
	
	Lenore Dove Baird[1]



	
		Birthday
	
	January 28, 2003



	
		Birthplace
	
	Kampala, Uganda



	
		Appearance
	
	The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping





"Getting the part and being let into this world and given the opportunity has just been very pivotal to me and my development and my self-confidence and my self-worth and my relationship with myself. It’s like, you know what, yeah, we do belong here. We can keep going. And there is space for us everywhere."
—Whitney Peak discussing her role[2]
Whitney Peak is the actress set to play Lenore Dove Baird in The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping.[1] In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, she stated that she "was terrified" after receiving the audition, but that Rachel Zegler "reached out and gave [her] some love".[2]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Career

2.1 Career Beginnings
2.2 Upcoming Projects


3 External links
4 References



Biography[]
Whitney  Peak was born the youngest of four siblings in Kampala, Uganda, to a Ugandan mother, a hairdresser, and a Canadian father, a helicopter pilot and engineer. She went to boarding school, and swam competitively. Her family spent time between Canada and Dubai, where her father worked, and where she was coached by a Sudanese former Olympian. After moving to Vancouver, British Columbia, at the age of nine, Peak got into dance, starting with acrobatics, and wanted to be on television. She also transitioned to a public school. She was in love with fashion and thought she would become a doctor.[3]

Career[]
Career Beginnings[]
Upon hearing a commercial on the radio for a Disney Channel casting call, she was able to get into acting. Her first acting part was in Aaron Sorkin's Molly's Game. She later became a series regular on the Netflix original series, The Chilling Adventures of Sabrina.
In 2021 Whitney booked the lead role of Zoya Lott on the HBO Max revival of Gossip Girl, which required her to fly from Canada to the United States. She lived alone at the age of eighteen in the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, where she began filming the series with her thirteen co-stars in a secluded area of New York. She was still in high school at the time of filming, so production assigned her a teacher that would help her graduate. 

Upcoming Projects[]
Whitney will next appear in the crime drama Trap House, releasing on November 14, 2025, followed by the heist comedy 4 Kids and a Bank on April 17, 2026. She will then star in the survival thriller Shiver, set for release on July 3, 2026, before taking on the role of Lenore Dove Baird in The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping, the sixth installment of the franchise, arriving in theaters on November 20, 2026.

External links[]
 Whitney Peak at the Internet Movie Database
 Whitney Peak on Instagram
 Whitney Peak on Wikipedia
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 "The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping’ Casts Joseph Zada as Haymitch, Whitney Peak as Lenore Dove".

↑ 2.0 2.1 Whitney Peak Reacts to ‘Hunger Games’ Prequel Casting, Says Rachel Zegler Reached Out and “Gave Me Some Love”

↑ https://www.elle.com/culture/a36818948/whitney-peak-gossip-girl-reboot/







