

Woodbine Chance

	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	14-16[1]



	
		Home
	
	District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Unnamed mother
Unnamed brothers
Binnie Chance
Clay Chance
Arlo Chance (possible ancestor)[2]



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping (upcoming)



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Serafin Mishiev







"He was always walking a line of trouble, but people liked him. Especially the girls. Too young to be considered a real danger yet, but certainly a rascal."
—Haymitch Abernathy on Woodbine[src]
Woodbine Chance was reaped to be one of the two male tributes from District 12 to participate in the 50th Hunger Games.[3]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Personality and traits
3 Trivia
4 Gallery

4.1 Behind the Scenes


5 References



Biography[]
Woodbine Chance and other boys in his family were considered wild by other residents of District 12. Hattie Meeney refused to sell them her white liquor for fear they'd get into trouble with the Peacekeepers, so they bought it from Bascom Pie instead.[3]
Woodbine was the fourth child to be reaped for the 50th Hunger Games, a Quarter Quell that called for four instead of two children to be reaped. He was to be the last tribute after Louella McCoy, Maysilee Donner and Wyatt Callow. After hearing his name called, Chance decided to run with the encouragement of his family. He ran towards a nearby alleyway where he was shot in the head from the rooftop of the Justice Building.[3]  His death caused disarray as onlookers either tried to flee or help Woodbine. As the Peacekeepers tried to restore order, Woodbine's mother tried to prevent them from taking his body away. His death also signaled the need for another male tribute to be reaped, and escort Drusilla Sickle chose Haymitch Abernathy.[4]

Personality and traits[]
Haymitch described Woodbine as the youngest and the handsomest of the Chance boys, "running like greased lightning."[3]

Trivia[]
He shared the initials "W.C." with the other male tribute for District 12, Wyatt Callow.
As suggested by his surname, Woodbine Chance may be related to Arlo Chance, possibly a distant cousin.
Woodbine is the first death to occur in Sunrise on the Reaping.
Haymitch grabs "one of the Chance girls, no more then eight" when he arrives at his house burning. This confirms that Woodbine had at least two living female relatives, likely around his age or younger.
Gallery[]
Behind the Scenes[]
A leaked image of Woodbine Chance's body getting dragged by Peacekeepers
References[]


↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1 - Woodbine was "a few rows" ahead of Haymitch in the section designated for males 14–16 years old.

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1 - "they've lost more family members to the rope than [Haymitch] could keep track of" 

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 2




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White






