

Woof


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	15-18 (at victory)Elderly[1]



	
		Occupation
	
	VictorTribute (75th Hunger Games)



	
		Home
	
	Victors' Village in District 8



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male




	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Catching Fire



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Catching Fire



	
		Portrayed by
	
	John Casino







"After lunch I do the edible-insect station with the District 8 tributes... Woof, a really old guy who’s hard of hearing and doesn’t seem to know what’s going on since he keeps trying to stuff poisonous bugs in his mouth."
—Katniss Everdeen describing Woof[src]
Woof was the District 8 male tribute who participated in the 75th Hunger Games, as well as the victor of an unknown Hunger Games.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 75th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Training
1.1.2 Interviews
1.1.3 Death




2 Physical description
3 Etymology
4 Trivia
5 References




	
		
				
					
					
				
			Quick Answers
		
		
	
	
			
				
					What district did Woof represent in the 75th Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games, Woof represented District 8 as the male tribute. He was also a victor from an earlier, unspecified edition of the games.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Who was Woof's district partner in the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games, Woof was paired with Cecelia, both representing District 8. Their training included a session at the edible insect station with Katniss Everdeen.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What was Woof's unique challenge during the Hunger Games training?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games training, Woof, the District 8 tribute, struggled due to his hearing impairment and confusion. His challenge was evident when he repeatedly tried to consume poisonous insects at the edible insect station, demonstrating his misunderstanding of the training tasks.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					What act of rebellion did Woof participate in during the Hunger Games?
						
				
				
					
						In the 75th Hunger Games, Woof from District 8 joined in a rebellion against the Capitol. This act of defiance took place post-interviews when all tributes collectively held hands.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
			
				
					Which Hunger Games did Woof win?
						
				
				
					
						Woof, a tribute from District 8, won an unspecified Hunger Games. He later participated in the 75th Hunger Games but was killed during the initial Cornucopia bloodbath.
					
					
						Provided by: Fandom
					
					
				
			
	


Biography[]
75th Hunger Games[]
Training[]
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Woof watching Beetee leave during the private training. 		 	 
After lunch on the first day of training, Katniss Everdeen joined Woof and his district partner Cecelia at the edible insect station. Katniss noticed that he was hard of hearing, and she thought he didn't seem to know what was going on because he kept trying to eat poisonous bugs.[1]

Interviews[]
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Johanna, Blight, Woof, Cecelia, and the District 9 female at the interviews. 		 	 
After their interviews, the tributes all joined hands in a display of rebellion against the Capitol.[2]

Death[]
At the beginning of the Games, Woof stood on his pedestal to the right of Katniss, in the same wedge of water.[3] He was killed in the initial Cornucopia bloodbath.[4]

Physical description[]
Woof was elderly, hard of hearing, and exhibited confusion and a lack of focus.[1]

Etymology[]
"Woof" refers to the threads that cross the warp of a woven fabric.

Trivia[]
As an elderly man, it appears that Woof had age-related hearing loss and dementia, formerly known as senility or senile dementia.
Haymitch Abernathy said that District 8's tributes had been in on the plan to protect Katniss and extract her from the arena,[5] but due to Woof's lack of lucidity, it is unknown how involved he was.
Woof bears similarity with another tribute, Lou Lou, as both attempted to put poisonous organisms in their mouth at the training stations.[1][6]
References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Catching Fire, Chapter 16

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 18

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 19

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 20

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 27

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 11





The Hunger Games trilogy


Novels

The Hunger Games • Catching Fire • Mockingjay


Main Characters

Katniss Everdeen • Peeta Mellark • Gale Hawthorne • Haymitch Abernathy • Effie Trinket


Supporting Characters

Primrose Everdeen • President Snow • Cinna • Mrs. Everdeen • Mr. Everdeen • President Coin • Claudius Templesmith • Caesar Flickerman • Madge Undersee • Paylor • Plutarch Heavensbee • Seneca Crane


Tributes

Marvel • Glimmer • Cato • Clove • Foxface • Thresh • Rue • Maysilee Donner • Titus


Past Victors

Augustus Braun • Annie Cresta • Beetee Latier • Blight • Brutus • Cashmere • Cecelia • Chaff • Enobaria • Finnick Odair • Gloss • Johanna Mason • Lyme • Mags Flanagan • Morphlings • Porter Millicent Tripp • Seeder • Wiress • Woof


Groups

Rebellion • Gamemakers • Prep team • Tributes • Victors


Locations

Panem • The Capitol • District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Gary Ross • Francis Lawrence


Films

The Hunger Games (film) • Catching Fire (film) • Mockingjay - Part 1 • Mockingjay - Part 2





