

Wyatt Callow


	
		
		
	
	


	Biographical Information


	
		Age
	
	18[1]



	
		Also known as
	
	The Calculator (by Drusilla Sickle)



	
		Occupation
	
	Tribute (50th Hunger Games)
Coal miner



	
		Home
	
	The Seam in District 12



	
		Relatives
	
	Jethro Callow † (father) 
Mrs. Callow (mother)



	
		Weapon
	
	Intelligence



	
		Fate
	
	Deceased




	Physical Information


	
		Gender
	
	Male



	
		Height
	
	5'5" (film)





	
		Eye Color
	
	Dark brown (film)



	
		Hair
	
	Black (film)


	Appearances


	
		Book Appearances
	
	Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Movie Appearances
	
	The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping



	
		Portrayed by
	
	Ben Wang







"I’m not a Booker Boy. I’m an oddsmaker. I determine the odds on an event people are betting on. That’s all. My family are the Booker Boys — they take the bets."
—Wyatt Callow[src]
Wyatt Callow was one of the two male tributes from District 12 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games. [2] He was the son of the late Jethro Callow.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 50th Hunger Games

1.1.1 Death




2 Personality and traits
3 Physical description
4 Skills
5 Relationships

5.1 Lou Lou
5.2 Maysilee Donner
5.3 Haymitch Abernathy
5.4 Jethro Callow


6 Trivia
7 Gallery

7.1 Stills

7.1.1 Trailer Screenshots




8 References



Biography[]
Wyatt lived on the opposite side of the Seam that the Abernathys did.[1] His family were the Booker Boys, people who organized bets in District 12 which included the Hunger Games. They would bet on which kids would be reaped, their ages, whether they were from the Seam or merchant, and the number of tesserae they carry.[3] Wyatt was the oddsmaker of the family, and determined the odds on events people were betting on.[4]

50th Hunger Games[]
For the second Quarter Quell, the Capitol demanded that twice the number of tributes be reaped for the event. They chose this to remind the districts that for every Capitol citizen that was killed during the Dark Days, two rebels were also killed.[5] By this time, Wyatt was no longer in school as he was 18 (nearly 19) and had likely started working in the mines. Wyatt was the first of the two male tributes to be chosen after the two female tributes, Louella McCoy and Maysilee Donner.[1] Shortly after, they were joined by Woodbine Chance, who ran away and was consequently killed. With the need for a new tribute, the last to be reaped was Haymitch Abernathy.[6]
On the train to the Capitol, he was very quiet and barely spoke, except to point out that Plutarch Heavensbee improved their odds by giving them a good edit in the broadcast of the reaping.[7] That night, Wyatt pretended to be asleep while he listened in on Haymitch and Louella's conversation. She had noticed him knuckle rolling a coin earlier that day, and realized his family were the Booker Boys. Both she and Haymitch decided that Wyatt couldn't be trusted and did not want to ally with him. In the morning, Wyatt revealed that he overheard and while they did not want him, they do need him.[3] Wyatt denied being a Booker Boy, and said that he was just an oddsmaker.[4]
During the chariot rides, the horses pulling them bolted and wrecked havoc across the drive. Wyatt and Maysilee managed to hold on but Haymitch and Louella were thrown off. When the horses stopped, Wyatt picked up Louella's hat and walked over only to realize she was dead. Haymitch picked her body up to flee from the Peacekeepers with her. Wyatt's warning that it's no use did not deter Haymitch from running to President Snow's house with her.[8]
Afterwards, Wyatt pointed out their odds of winning had improved with injuries to Districts 6 and 10. When he said that Louella had a poor chance of winning anyway, Haymitch was upset and asked Wyatt what odds his own father had put on his chances of winning. Wyatt was ashamed to say just about 40 to 1, and Haymitch pointed out his own father considered him a long shot.[8] Wyatt had dinner with his mentors, Wiress and Mags Flanagan, and left the table when Haymitch joined.[9]
During a morning meeting with his mentors, Wyatt revealed that one thing he wanted to avoid was a long drawn out death so that people who bet on it wouldn't benefit. He also agreed that he wanted to do something to show the Capitol that they were human too and not animals, but he knew they'd only get it on camera if they did something big like kill themselves. Wyatt agreed to ally with Maysilee, and Haymitch offered to introduce them to the districts in Ampert's alliance, the Newcomers, as he wanted to expand it. Wyatt was interested as a pack would improve their odds, something he was even more interested in when he learned he was a loud snorer and needed protection when he slept.[9]
At a training session, Maysilee advised Wyatt to look tougher. After joining Ampert's alliance comprising of Districts 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, & 12, Wyatt figured out their odds of countering and beating the Career pack if they hunt them down were decent. His gift with numbers impressed the District 3 tributes. On their way back to their apartment, Wyatt was confused when Haymitch was taken away by Peacekeepers.[10]
Haymitch returned to the apartment with a body double of Louella, who they dubbed Lou Lou. Wyatt was shocked when he saw her and questioned how Louella could be alive, before Haymitch explained that President Snow wanted them to pretend she was the real one. When they realized she was a tortured girl from District 11, Wyatt took pity on her and said she was one of them now. In the morning, they have another discussion with their mentors. Wyatt told them there were tarps and suggested it was a sign of what the arena might be like. That night, Wyatt suggested he and Haymitch sleep on the floor in Maysilee's room so she was not on her own with Lou Lou like they will in the arena.[11]
After learning that Lou Lou had an audio implant in her ear, Wyatt agreed that they have to be careful what they say around her. During another training session, Wyatt looked after her. He was excited when Ampert completed the Newcomers alliance and he calculated their odds against the Careers. After his private session with the Gamemakers, he was given a score of 6, presumably having demonstrated his oddsmaking abilities.[12] He remarked that he did not know how to factor Haymitch's score of 1 into his odds. He hugged Lou Lou after she was chastised by the Capitol through her ears.[13]
In preparation for his interview with Caesar Flickerman, Wyatt was advised to promote his skills as an oddsmaker, and not to undersell himself by Wiress after he suggested his odds weren't as good as others. In response, he pointed out that it would prevent him from making stupid mistakes.[14] Dressed by Effie Trinket, Wyatt impressed Caesar in his interview by calculating the odds of other tributes and the rate of sponsor dollars. Caesar suggested that if Wyatt won, they'd have to go to a casino together. Lou Lou's interview turned disastrous when she started calling the audience "murderers". Wyatt was instructed to carry her off the stage after she collapsed.[15]
Wyatt attended a photo session at Plutarch Heavensbee's mansion where he looked out for Lou Lou. Wyatt questioned the audience's lack of intelligence when Plutarch suggested their responses were more emotional than logical, and that they were using emotions to figure out which tribute to support. Wyatt didn't think enjoying getting to watch children kill each other showed emotion, but Plutarch explained they consider it patriotic duty. Wyatt's catchphrase for their photoshoot was "All bluff and no aces". That night, Wyatt was disappointed when Haymitch revealed he was going solo in the arena.[16]
Before entering the arena, Wyatt questioned whether their tracker implants would be removed if they win. He embraced his fellow District 12 tributes before they were separated.[17]

Death[]
Wyatt died in the initial bloodbath. He was killed by Panache Barker with a sword[18] while he was trying to shield Lou Lou, despite knowing her odds were so slim.[19] Ampert retrieved Wyatt's token, a scrip coin, and later gave it to Haymitch.[18] After Haymitch won the 50th Hunger Games, he returned to their bedroom in their Capitol apartment, but felt it was empty without Wyatt.[20]
At his funeral, Haymitch Abernathy noticed that there were five caskets instead of four and asked who the other casket was for. Wyatt's mother said that Wyatt's father Jethro Callow had committed suicide by hanging himself out of shame when Wyatt's body was returned to District 12.[21]

Personality and traits[]
Wyatt is quiet and keeps to himself, having been described as "keep[ing] his head down" prior to the reaping. He is described as a "compulsive oddsmaker" in the official synopsis for Sunrise on the Reaping[22], and often struggles with the urge to share his knowledge with the other tributes. He was also very intelligent when it came to arithmetic, specifically probability theory. However, his oddsmaking skills also required him to be extremely observant of everything going on around him. Because of this, Wyatt seemed off-putting to Haymitch, but the District 3 tributes (specifically Ampert Latier) found his skills interesting. 
While Wyatt is originally perceived as rude and insensitive by some of the other tributes, he has a very kind and selfless heart, which is proven through his immediate acceptance of and ultimate sacrifice for Lou Lou. Although the Capitol tries to paint him as "the calculator," he defies this image and proves that his most important trait is his big heart.  

Physical description[]
Wyatt had a blank, impassive stare, and according to Haymitch, he was "fairly good-sized".[7] He is also described as having a fair amount of muscle from working in the mines, and being from the Seam, likely also has olive-toned skin, black hair, and gray eyes. He also had a quiet voice.[3] 
In the film adaptation, he is of Chinese descent and has brown eyes, black hair, and a shorter frame. 

Skills[]
Wyatt is described as being incredibly observant and knowledgable of past Hunger Games, including past victors and the other tributes. His ability to pick up small details makes him an incredibly good oddsmaker, as he's able to accurately predict tributes' strengths & weaknesses, along with the changes in their odds when making certain decisions. He remarks that this skill will keep him from making irrational choices in the Games, an ironic line given his ultimate sacrifice for Lou Lou. 
He is also gifted with probability theory and arithmetic, although these are not his main skills. It is also implied that Wyatt is physically strong, as he has a muscular frame and has experience working in the mines of District 12. 

Relationships[]
Lou Lou[]
While the other District 12 tributes express an initial rejection of Lou Lou, Wyatt immediately accepts her, saying "Whoever she is, I guess she's ours now." He continues to prove his acceptance of her by taking care of her during training and calming her down when her earpiece caused her pain. After Lou Lou collapses onstage during her interview, Wyatt is instructed to carry her offstage and, overall, takes on a protective, brotherly role with her. 
In the Cornucopia bloodbath, Wyatt is killed by Panache Barker while trying to shield Lou Lou, despite knowing her odds of survival were so slim. 

Maysilee Donner[]
After facing rejection from Haymitch Abernathy and Louella McCoy, Maysilee and Wyatt agree to form an alliance. Despite Maysilee's abrasive attitude to her fellow district partners, she shows kindness towards Wyatt, defending him after Haymitch makes a nasty comment about how low the odds Wyatt's father placed on him were. When it's revealed that Wyatt is a loud snorer, she shows care for him by offering to wake him up or take precautions to muffle the sound of his snores. She ends up assisting Wyatt in appearing more intimidating, mussing up his hair and pushing up his sleeves before walking into the training center. 
Later, during training, Maysilee weaves Wyatt's token (a scrip coin) into a necklace so he can easily wear it, but she designs it so that he can easily pop the coin in and out, knowing that fidgeting with the coin helps him think. While preparing for their interviews, Wyatt says that Maysilee "isn't a bad bet" and has a decent shot of winning the Games, displaying a clear respect for her. He is posthumously proven correctly when Maysilee places fourth out of 48 tributes, having played an incredible game. 
Maysilee later expresses grief at Wyatt's death, having directly witnessed it, and follows Lou Lou after she runs from the Cornucopia, but ends up losing her. 

Haymitch Abernathy[]
Haymitch initially shows a mild distrust and dislike of Wyatt after discovering his Booker Boy background, which Wyatt clearly refuses. However, after the death of Louella McCoy, Wyatt comments on how their odds have not changed, which solidifies Haymitch's distrust of him. He responds by asking what Wyatt's odds were, and Wyatt admits that they're low, and that he had never pretended otherwise. Later, when Wyatt had dinner with their mentors, he leaves the table when Haymitch joins.
Haymitch and Wyatt later warm up to each other when they realize an alliance is essential, and that Wyatt's perceived rudeness is unintentional. In reality, he has a kind heart. In preparation for their interviews, Wyatt said that he'd bet on Haymitch as the victor. Haymitch says that Wyatt doesn't need to humor him, but Wyatt says he is serious, and is posthumously proven correct when Haymitch is crowned as the victor. 
The night before the Games begin, Wyatt expresses disappointment at Haymitch's announcement that he's going solo in the arena, although he recognizes that it's the smart thing to do. When Wyatt is killed the next day in the Cornucopia bloodbath, Haymitch is surprised at how it affects him, and expresses grief and anger at his death. 

Jethro Callow[]
Jethro Callow was a Booker Boy and the father of Wyatt, who rejected the Booker Boy label due to the fact that they often bet on every aspect of the Hunger Games. During the reaping ceremony, Jethro, along with the other male members of Wyatt's family, begin to accuse each other of jinxing him, and that his reaping was a punishment for the Booker Boys' gambling on the Games. 
Jethro seems to have a very strained, transactional relationship with Wyatt, as he placed 40-1 odds on his own son, likely to make a larger profit off of Wyatt if he were to win. Nonetheless, this damaged Wyatt's self-esteem and led to his eventual sacrifice for Lou Lou, as he didn't want anyone— including his father— to profit off of his performance in the Hunger Games. His death served as a reminder that he was more than just a statistic, and could make his own choices, despite the bets that were placed. 
After Wyatt's body was returned to his family, Jethro hung himself out of shame. 

Trivia[]
In the first Hunger Games book, Katniss mentions a group of gamblers who go around accepting bets on the reaping, who either don't care or don't have anyone left to lose. These are potentially the Callows/Booker Boys, having been further desensitized after losing one of their own.
In Catching Fire, the female Morphling from District 6 sacrificed herself to save Peeta, a male tribute from District 12. Similarly, in Sunrise on the Reaping, Wyatt gave his life protecting Lou Lou, another tribute from District 12.
Wyatt comes from a family known for gambling on the Hunger Games, often referred to as "Booker Boys". This background adds a layer of irony, as Wyatt becomes a tribute in the very event his family profited from, ultimately leading to his tragic end.
Wyatt is the only known District 12 tribute to have been killed during the Cornucopia bloodbath.
Wyatt is very skilled in probability theory.
In training to the interviews before the 50th Hunger Games, Wyatt says he would advice to bet on Haymitch Abernathy as the eventual victor. He's posthumously proven right when Haymitch eventually wins the Games, furthermore showing his skills in betting, probability theory and knowledge of the Hunger Games.
Gallery[]
Stills[]
Trailer Screenshots[]

References[]


↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 1

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 14

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 4

↑ 4.0 4.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 5

↑ Catching Fire, Chapter 12

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 2

↑ 7.0 7.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 3

↑ 8.0 8.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 6

↑ 9.0 9.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 7

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 8

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 10

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 11

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 12

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 12

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 13

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 14

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 15

↑ 18.0 18.1 Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 17

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 20

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 25

↑ Sunrise on the Reaping, Chapter 26

↑ Scholastic Reveals Cover for New Book in the Worldwide Bestselling Hunger Games Series by Suzanne Collins




Sunrise on the Reaping


Main Characters

Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner


Supporting Characters

Lenore Dove Baird • Louella McCoy • Wyatt Callow • Plutarch Heavensbee • President Snow


Tributes

Panache Barker • Loupe • Silka Sharp • Carat • Alpheus • Janus • Camilla • Nona • Ampert • Lect • Dio • Coil • Urchin • Angler • Barba • Maritte  •  Hychel  •  Fisser  • Anion  •  Potena • Miles • Atread • Wellie • Velo • Bircher  • Heartwood • Autumn • Ringina • Wefton • Ripman • Notion • Alawna • Ryan • Clayton • Kerna • Midge • Buck • Stamp • Lannie • Peeler • Hull • Tile • Chicory • Blossom • Wyatt Callow  • Haymitch Abernathy • Maysilee Donner • Louella McCoy • Woodbine Chance • Lou Lou


Mentors

Beetee • Wiress  • Mags


Minor Characters

Willamae Abernathy • Sid Abernathy • Mayor Allister • Tam Amber • Blair • Jethro Callow • Clerk Carmine Clade • Merrilee Donner • Burdock Everdeen • Asterid March • Cayson McCoy • Ima McCoy • Otho Mellark • Hattie Meeney • Caesar Flickerman • Faustina Gripper • Incitatus Loomy • Drusilla Sickle • Magno Stift • Effie Trinket • Proserpina Trinket • Vitus


Groups

Careers • Newcomers • Covey • Capitol • Gamemakers


Locations

District 11 • District 12 • The Capitol • The Academy • The Arena • The Meadow


Behind the Scenes

Suzanne Collins • Jefferson White






