The The Hunger Games: Ten was the first Hunger Trials to introduce mentors, recruiting twenty-four of the Capitol Academy's best and brightest seniors. A mentor guided the female tribute from District 7 and the Games' eventual victor. The Head Gamemaker oversaw the event. These Games were considered to be disastrous, partly due to students being killed during and before the Games, and all but one recording were deleted.

The The Hunger Games: Ten was the first Hunger Trials in the series where every tribute is given at least a first name, and full names are given for every mentor.

The Games were held in a dilapidated amphitheater that had been used for sporting, entertainment, and military events prior to the Dark Days, but fell into disrepair afterwards. This year, the landscape of the arena was altered when a bombing opened up access to tunnels where tributes could hide.

The only muttations that appeared in these Games were small, brightly colored snake mutts. They had a heightened sense of smell, and they were highly venomous. These mutts were released into the arena on the fourth day, and once bitten, victims' wounds seeped with bright pus. This was the first use of mutts in the Games.

The Games had not yet implemented uniforms, so tributes went into the arena in clothes they had worn since the reaping. Because of this, most of the tributes’ clothes were worn and improper for the event. For example, one tribute wore patched burlap clothing and was barefoot. Another wore a filthy dress, and another wore what appeared to be a flour sack belted with rope.

A tribute was reaped from District 7. After this, another tribute was reaped as well.

Two days later, Peacekeepers roughly pulled the tributes from the dirty cattle car they'd been transported in. The tributes were dumped into an enclosure.

Tributes and their mentors met to gather information for records. Later at the zoo, a tribute was shot dead after slitting the throat of her mentor. The next day, a proposal for betting and sponsorships was finished in the morning. While at a lab, a mentor was bitten by snake mutts and taken to the hospital.

A funeral was held, and the corpse of the tribute who killed the mentor was hung on a hook above the living tributes as they were paraded around. The national anthem was sung.

Later, after lunch, tributes and their mentors were taken for a tour of the Capitol Arena. However, two bombs went off, one at the main gate and another in the stands. This killed both tributes from one district, their mentors, and injured two tributes from another district. The tributes from two districts attempted an escape only to be shot dead by Peacekeepers. In her own escape attempt, a tribute fell to her death, but her district partner successfully got away. Three mentors were hospitalized. Most everyone present needed some degree of medical attention, but injured tributes were only treated by a veterinarian.

On a subsequent day, a mentor woke up in the hospital and was visited by friends. Outside, there was heightened security due to an escape. During this time, the injured tributes were treated by the veterinarian, whose request to have them transferred into the care of a doctor was denied; as a result, both tributes died.

In the early hours, a mentor came to a hospital room, showing that her skin was turning to scales. She claimed that the Head Gamemaker was trying to kill her. Later that day, the mentor was discharged from the hospital.

By nine in the morning, a funeral was held for two mentors. The bodies of tributes who died were slung over the backs of horses, while the corpses of those who attempted escape were dragged behind them. The surviving tributes followed in two caged trucks separated by sex.

On the next day, the remaining tributes and mentors began to plan for their interviews, if they chose to participate. A guitar was obtained for a tribute to use. The following two days were devoted to the tributes practicing in separate classrooms with their mentors.

In the evening, the first interviews in Hunger Trials history were broadcast. They were also held in front of a live audience in an auditorium, hosted by a presenter. Only half the remaining mentor-tribute pairs chose to participate. Mentors generally offered background information on their tributes, attempting to be memorable and urging sponsors to support them.

The mentors were taken for a tour behind the scenes at the Games headquarters, where they were shown the drone prototypes for delivering sponsor gifts. A decision was made to give a tribute a compact containing rat poison. After more talk of strategy, the mentor and tribute kissed, and the tributes were taken away. Afterward, a tribute died of asthma complications overnight.

The 14 remaining tributes were placed in the center of the arena in a circle surrounding a pile of multiple weapons—there was no proper Cornucopia horn, as it was still early in the history of the Hunger Trials. No food or water supplies were included in the pile. A tribute who had escaped and disappeared during the rebel bombings of the Arena had been captured and strung up by steel poles in the air at the main entrance to the Arena and left to hang from his manacles, still alive and badly beaten.

At the sound of the gong, most of the tributes ran for the tunnels which had been caused by the rebel bombings. Some of the stronger tributes ran forward for the weapons but quickly ran away once they had gotten what they needed. One tribute was the only tribute to stay out in the open, armed with a pitchfork and a long knife. After seeing that none of the other tributes stayed to fight, that tribute climbed into a nearby stand to begin his hunt for the other tributes.

Later in the day, a tribute emerged from one of the tunnels and made her way over to the weapon pile taking a knife and a small axe. She then went over to the poles in which the captured tribute still hung from and began to climb up them. Once she reached the top and balanced herself on the beams she spoke to him, possibly apologizing, before driving her axe into his neck three times, killing him. As reward for showing strength, she was then gifted a bottle of water.

As the afternoon progressed, only a few tributes could be spotted leaving their hiding places momentarily before disappearing again. One tribute remained in the stands and the other atop the beams, eventually she hacked away at the restraints still holding the body in the air sending it falling to the ground. She then received another sponsor, this time being a slice of bread. She used her belt rope to sturdily fasten herself to the beam and then rested.

Two tributes eventually appeared out of the barricade and moved over to the body where the broken drones lay. The pair began examining the pieces of the drones, fiddling with the wires and causing the lights to blink. They then received a sponsor of some water and bread before vanishing back into the barricade with the drones.

One tribute then appeared from one of the tunnels carrying his district partner in his arms. The district partner was most likely suffering from tuberculosis as she began coughing up blood once placed down. The tribute went back into the barricade, leaving her by herself. She received two water bottle sponsors but she was too weak to even acknowledge them. Another tribute then appeared from one of the tunnels, took the bottles of water and quickly retreated back into the tunnels again.

As evening approached, the sick tribute started to convulse and spray blood from her mouth, before dying.

Later that night, a mentor snuck into the Arena to sit by and cover the dead tribute's body in bread crumbs, a custom to wish the dead good passing into the afterlife. Another mentor was sent in to retrieve him discretely without alerting the tributes. They attempted to take the body back with them but were forced to leave it as other tributes appeared and attacked them. One mentor whacked a tribute in the head with a plank of wood, killing him. The two mentors managed to escape the Arena, keeping the tributes still trapped inside.

In the afternoon of the second day, a tribute began to climb onto the bleachers at the furthest end of the Arena. An alliance of three tributes chased her down and one speared her through the throat with a trident.

Another tribute was then chased out from one of the tunnels by a rabid tribute. It was assumed he contracted rabies from being bitten during his time in an enclosure. The rabid tribute cornered the other tribute up the remains of a concession stand. Due to the rabies, the rabid tribute could not stand water, so the other tribute was sponsored numerous bottles of water by his mentor. Seeing the bottles caused the rabid tribute to enter a frenzy and he fell from the stands, the sound of his bones breaking audible as he hit the ground.

The tribute comforted the rabid tribute as he died, telling him that he could ‘sleep’ now. She then took some of the remaining bottles of water to hydrate herself and then used some of the water to clean his face. She then closed his eyes with a handkerchief given to her before the Games by her mentor. She received a sponsor gift of bread and cheese, collected them and exited into a near tunnel when she saw another tribute approaching. That tribute let her run into the tunnels as he took what water bottles remained and returned to the stands.

As the day started, one tribute went up to another. They formed a mini alliance with one giving the other scraps of a flag to protect her from the sun; in exchange, she gave him a piece of bread and a chunk of cheese. His disrespect of the flag angered the audience. A calmness came between the two tributes, but it was ruined when the alliance of three appeared. She warned him of them, and he retreated to the barricade.

When the alliance reached directly under her beam, she did not pay attention to them until one smacked his sword on a pole. The alliance created a plan; two would coordinate climbing up the two poles while the third stayed at the bottom with their weapons, trapping her. After a while, she decided to confront the stronger climber and swung her axe. The climber slid away, so she went to the other climber, who was on the beam but too distracted to catch the trident thrown from below. This gave her the opportunity to use the flat side of her axe to injure his knee, sending him down. Unfortunately for her, he caught himself. As the first climber reached the top, she yelled a loud war cry. She then plunged her trident into her abdomen, causing her to fall off the beam and die on impact.

The first climber then helped the injured climber with his knee while the tribute on the ground did a sort of dance over her corpse. As the injured climber initiated a “victory slap”, the first climber stabbed her trident in the back of the tribute on the ground. The injured climber finished him off with a knife to his neck. After the duo left to a tunnel, another tribute came out to take his district partner's axe and receive food from sponsors.

In the late afternoon, one tribute awoke from his sleep and surveyed the damage, unable to comprehend the scene, and particularly the fallen tribute. He walked around the bodies until he decided to carry her body to where other bodies lay. He did the same with the remaining dead tributes, save one, over the next hour. He then again infuriated the citizens by using another piece of flag to cover the dead tributes and making a cape for himself. His makeshift cape seemed to inspire him.

The forgotten tribute appeared mid-morning, to her mentor's delight. Her appearance was skeletal, with an empty bottle of water in her hand. Unbeknownst to her, though, another tribute had put rat poison in that bottle of water and left the bottle in the tunnels. She only took a few gulps of water from her sponsor gifts until she ceased motion, a silvery liquid trickling down her mouth.

Near noon, one tribute appeared and cautiously approached her. He examined an apple and her face, suspecting her death was unnatural. He abandoned the food and water, but took her corpse and placed it with the others. By the time he returned to the tunnels, the duo were eating her sponsor gifts, oblivious to her death.

In late afternoon, two tributes were in the arena's center, poking for something. Another tribute was already at the stands. A different tribute then attempted to ambush the duo, but the duo fled for the barricade. The three become distracted by the large drone carrying a tank with snake muttations. These snake mutts were sent in retaliation for a mentor's death after he succumbed to his injuries from the arena bombing. As the snakes shot out, the ambushing tribute immediately climbed up the bleachers while the duo stared in a moment of confusion. When they finally noticed the immediate danger, it was already too late for one. The snakes left pink, yellow, and blue streaks on his body and he asphyxiated for about ten seconds before dying. The other managed to cling onto a pole, crying.

Not long after, one of the duo shrieked and ran out of a tunnel, the other ahead of her. A snake dangled on her arm. Despite tearing it free, numerous snakes attacked her, leading to her blissfully short death. The other flung his trident and leapt onto the pole opposite of the crying tribute, halving the first time he climbed it. The crying tribute cried for his help as her grip on the pole weakened, but he only shook his head, shocked.

As the snakes began to target the crying tribute again, another tribute emerged from the tunnels, softly singing. The snake mutts, recognizing her scent due to a handkerchief placed in a tank with her scent, flocked to her. This gave the crying tribute the chance to reach a safer place. The singing tribute then began an elaborate song as the snakes wove around her. After completing the song, she hummed to them, keeping them docile.

A storm rolled in, creating a dazzling sunset and killing the snakes mutts due to their inability to adapt to the cold and wet weather. During the night, the female tributes sought shelter in the tunnels or the barricade while the male tributes got drenched outside.

Sunrise came with the last of the clouds rolling out, leaving the arena wet with puddles. Both remaining male tributes received food from sponsors, but as one ate his food hungrily, the other only drank from a puddle despite this having been the first time he received a sponsor gift since the start of the Games. Unknown to everyone except one tribute, he had contracted rabies when another tribute spit in his eyes before the Games even started, and this was a symptom of it.

One tribute mimed eating to receive sponsor gifts, and the crying tribute revealed herself after a minute. She was armed with a drone she had hacked, blocking the homing direction of the drones. When she positioned herself under the miming tribute, she flipped a switch and launched the drone, a cable tethered to her wrist. He was confused at first, and got distracted from the bread he received. The drone was normal for a while, but then suddenly attempted to make another delivery. More drones came and did the same, injuring his eye. He attempted to escape the drones' torment, and gripped towards the pole he left the crying tribute to when the snake mutts were unleashed. In the process, he put pressure on his injured knee and lost his balance. This caused him to fall, snapping his neck.

While he was being attacked, the other male tribute managed to climb down the scoreboard to attempt another try to kill the crying tribute. Right after his death, the male tribute brought his axe down on her skull, killing her instantly. The drones sent for her were taken by him. After he took a dozen parcels, he left for the barricade. This left three tributes. The remaining tribute proceeded to take the two bodies over to the rest, using a new piece of flag to cover them.

The final female tribute finally came out just before noon and surveyed the arena. She poisoned a puddle with another water bottle with rat poison, receiving many drones of sponsor gifts. She saw the other tribute, so she went the opposite way and checked which tributes were left alive. The male tribute attempted to ambush her, but she ran away on time. Just as he swung at her, she flung herself and clung to him, surprising him. She then grabbed a surviving snake mutt from her dress pockets and the snake bit his neck, killing him. Before he died, he managed to kill the snake mutt by smashing it into the ground multiple times.

As the day grew longer, the hot sun dried up the many puddles. She received more food and water. She later attempted to drag his body to the others, but the remaining tribute shouted at her. She let go and went to the tunnels. He then transported the body himself, satisfied. She then put her plan into motion. Using the fact he had not eaten much for many days, she tired him out by taking the flag pieces, getting him to chase after her. He was very insistent on keeping the corpses covered, and ran ragged to the point of exhaustion. He then desperately drank out of the puddle she had poisoned. He only just made it to the body and covered up only half of himself with a flag before his body gave out. After thirty minutes, she came from the bleachers to check his pulse and, finding nothing, closed his eyelids. She was then announced as the victor of the The Hunger Trials: Ten.

These early Games lacked several features which would become prominent in later versions, while others were experimental. Nobody was said to be a “Career tribute” and there were no known volunteers. The tributes were not injected with trackers, so there was no easy way to tell at any given time if they were alive or dead if they didn't come out into the open. This had never been a problem before due to the openness of the arena, but became an issue in these Games due to the hiding places created by the rebel bombing. Since the Gamemakers could not easily tell when tributes had passed away, there were no nightly displays of those tributes who had passed away during the day. Additionally, the bodies of dead tributes were not removed by hovercraft, but were instead left in the arena to be dealt with or not dealt with by the remaining tributes as they saw fit. There were no stylists and thus tributes were not dressed in elaborate costumes prior to entering the Games. There were also no escorts. Sponsorship of tributes was available for the first time, though the drone delivery system used to deliver the gifts had not yet been perfected. Though a presenter was tapped to be the first ever host of the Games for a television audience, he only had previous experience reporting the weather and the broadcast thus lacked the polish of latter presentations. For the first time in the history of the Games, muttations were unleashed in the arena in the form of rainbow-colored snakes, specially bred by the Head Gamemaker.

Ultimately, the Head Gamemaker considered these Games a disaster, presenting the Capitol as far too vulnerable. She erased all recordings of the Games, keeping only a master copy in her own personal vault for her own purposes.

This is the first games where a victor was from District 7. The district would not have a second victor for another forty years.