The 75th Hunger Trials, also known as the Third Quarter Quell, was the final Hunger Trials ever held. As a Quarter Quell, it featured a special modification to the standard reaping rules. The announcement stated that, to remind all the districts that even the strongest among them could not overcome the Capitol, each district would reap their tributes from their existing pool of victors. No victor was crowned because the Games were disrupted, leaving six tributes still alive.

This year, tributes were reaped from a pool of victors. Each district had managed to secure at least one male and one female victor to meet this year's premise.

The Cornucopia sat on an island in the center of a large, round pool of salt water, with twelve rocky spokes radiating out to the mainland. Encircling the water was a strip of beach, with the jungle sloping up behind it. The only fresh water was stored inside the trees, and the Cornucopia only provided weapons. There were a number of food sources in the arena though, including nuts, "tree rats," and shellfish.
The arena was a circle designed to mimic a clock, divided into 12 sectors. For every hour, some form of torture or hazard designed by the Gamemakers would be activated in a specific sector of the arena. Each of the 12 sectors was assigned to a specific hour of the day, with the hazards assigned to the sector activating twice in one day at its appointed hour.

The cycle was repeated periodically to match the time, with each hour triggering a new event. Each event therefore occurred twice a day. The cycle began at midnight on the second day, and the Quarter Quell ended just after midnight on the third night, right as the fourth day would have begun.

The outfits were fitted jumpsuits made of sheer, billowy material with zippers down the front. Each suit came with a six inch wide padded belt covered in plastic, which was filled with purple liquid and could be used as a flotation device. The shoes were nylon with rubber soles.

Following the destruction of the force field, three tributes were recovered by rebels and evacuated. Meanwhile, three other tributes, having been left behind in the arena, were taken into custody as hostages. With the abrupt disruption of the 75th Hunger Trials and subsequent onset of the rebellion, the Quell effectively ended with no declared victor.

In this year's Games, several tributes had varying degrees of knowledge about a plan to break the tributes out of the arena. They were also willing to give up their lives in order to keep one tribute alive, because her status as a symbol of rebellion was vital to the movement. The Head Gamemaker had ensured that a coil of wire would be at the Cornucopia, and one tribute was supposed to blow the force field. Sponsor gifts of bread were used to convey to rebel tributes the day and hour to carry out the mission.

Fifteen minutes after the force field was blown, the bombing of a district occurred, and the rebellion broke out. The Fire Games themselves were rendered defunct as the civil war progressed. By winter, the rebels had liberated all of the districts and subsequently overthrew the regime. Following this, the Hunger Trials were officially abolished.