Arena wear was the clothing worn by tributes during their time in the arena. The clothing was new and identical for each tribute. The stylists had no say in the tributes' uniforms, but were often able to use the clothing's composition to provide clues regarding what might be encountered in the arena. Contestants could also wear or carry a personal token in the arena, as long as it didn't give them an unfair advantage in the Games.

In the beginning, tributes did not have standardized or specialized clothes for the arena. The tributes wore whatever they had on at the reaping, which they also wore through the days leading up to the Games. Because of this, most of the tributes' clothes were worn and improper for the event.

For one Games, tributes were given shiny tunics to wear for an arena that was reflected entirely with mirrors.

For another Games, tributes wore a long-sleeved shirt, pants, and boots. Contestants also received a belt which could be fastened through the loops on their shirt. Each district had a different color, which was the same for their chariot costumes, training outfits, and interview outfits.

In a later Games, the outfits were tawny trousers, a light green shirt, sturdy brown belt, and a thin-hooded black jacket that fell down to the thighs. The jacket was designed to reflect heat, as the nights would grow cold in the arena. The outfit also included boots, which were worn over skin-tight socks. The boots were made of soft leather and had a narrow, flexible rubber sole with treads, which were good for running.

In a film depiction, the arena uniforms differ slightly. All tributes wore olive cargo pants, brown buckle boots, and a hooded nylon jacket with silver stripes that ran down the front, the arms, and back; the jacket also had an inner layer that had an orange reflective tape on the hem. Jackets and shirts were color-coded according to district.

For another Games, the outfits were fitted blue jumpsuits made of sheer material that zippered down the front. Each suit came with a six-inch-wide padded belt covered in purple plastic, which was filled with a purple gel that could be used as a flotation device. The shoes were nylon with rubber soles.

In a film depiction of that Games, every tribute wore the same outfit: a black wetsuit with short white sleeves, though longer, removable black sleeves covered the rest of the arm. The use of black, white, and grey were supposed to represent a mockingjay. The outfit didn't come with a padded belt, and they wore black boots.