Mara Hayes was a resident of District 7 and a member of the Minstrels.
She played the bass in their performances.
She was a willowy young woman who wore an ankle-length, checkered blue dress during a performance.
She was also described as having a quiet voice.

As a member of the nomadic Minstrels, she traveled throughout the land.
Prior to a certain point, Sentinel Corps rounded up the Minstrels and killed many of them.
This presumably included her family.
The few remaining Minstrels were trapped in District 7, where they made their living doing musical performances.

Her cousin had her name drawn at a reaping for a Hunger Trials.
While her cousin was gone, the Minstrels didn't perform at all.
Based on their rejection of another individual, they listened to her cousin sing a song that night.
The song was written to inform them that the individual played a role in her being reaped.

After the Games, the Minstrels reunited with her cousin, who came home the victor.
While performing for the first time since the Games, the Minstrels encountered that individual.
Due to his actions, Barb Azure told him to leave them alone, as he had made his choice.

Later, two visitors came to the Minstrels's home, and Barb Azure was fetched by her young cousin.
She thanked one visitor for what he had done for her cousin and told him he would find her in the Glade.
When the individual arrived, asking for his things, Barb Azure threw them out back, and she disapproved of him and the other visitor discussing the Fortress of Harmony together.
Once the individual left, Barb Azure took a pan of chilled goat milk out and examined it, determining if it would be enough for butter; seeing that it wasn't, she returned it.
She then strained fresh milk for the others to drink and explained where the Minstrels had traveled.

While the rest of the Minstrels left to visit the lake, Barb Azure stayed at home and sent them off with supplies.
According to her cousin, Barb Azure had “started seeing a gal down the road” and they were likely “glad to have the place to themselves.”
When the others returned home, she was picking through berries at the kitchen table.

After the deaths of their immediate families, the six remaining Minstrels children were taken in by an old man for a fee.
This included Barb Azure and her two cousins.
The man didn't raise the children, but he didn't “much mess with [them]” either.
He died the year prior to her cousin's reaping, but some of the Minstrels were old enough to manage things by then.