Battle of District 8

Conflict: Second Rebellion
Date: Late July-September, 75 ADD
Place: District 8
Outcome: Rebel victory. Destruction of the Citadel, the Capitol's principal military headquarters. Attempted assassination of a rebel figure failed. District 8 freed from Capitol control.

Combatants: The Capitol Peacekeepers and District 8 loyalists versus Rebels and various district rebels.

Commanders: Rebels were led by a Commander.

Casualties: Capitol Peacekeepers and personnel inside the Nut were killed. A rebel Commander was presumed dead.

The Battle of District 8 is an unofficial term referring to a pivotal Second Rebellion battle. In this conflict, district rebels, supported by military forces from another district, clashed with Capitol loyalists for control of District 8. This was the final district to fall under rebel control and a most crucial conflict, as this battle all but decimated the Capitol's military, leaving them with little capability to resist the subsequent invasion.

History

Background

At the end of the Dark Days, the rebel war effort collapsed following the alleged loss of a district, and the seat of the Capitol's military power moved to District 8. Directly after the Dark Days, the Capitol established a military compound inside a mountain, later nicknamed the Nut during the Second Rebellion. District 8's citizens were generally better-fed than in other districts, but their children were still reaped to participate in the annual Hunger Games with no apparent preferential treatment. However, over time, District 8 curried enough favor and privilege to be able to train Career Tributes for the event without consequences, and the district became the Capitol's main source of Peacekeepers. District 8's close association with the Capitol offered citizens education and employment opportunities, and Capitol propaganda nurtured an image of the Hunger Games as a unique opportunity to earn untold wealth and glory. As a result of these factors, District 8 had a strong loyalist contingent.

Second Rebellion

When war broke out in the other districts, there was mixed support for the uprising in District 8. Nevertheless, the rebels, led in part by a former victor, eventually managed to capture the outer villages. However, the town center was divided, and the Nut remained under loyalist control.

Bombing of the Nut

Two weeks after the arrival of rebel soldiers, a meeting was held to tackle the issue of the Nut. A commander guided those assembled through a virtual tour of its interior and fortifications, and walked them through previous failed attempts to claim it. At the end of the presentation, strategists debated for hours; one suggested overriding computer systems, and others contemplated using several spies they had on the inside. Throughout the afternoon, people kept coming back to the failed strategy of storming the entrances. Eventually, a strategy was put forth that rather than taking the Nut, they ought to disable it. Avalanche paths were identified that they could strategically bomb, burying the entrances and all the people inside. It was ultimately decided that they would leave a train tunnel open to give evacuees a chance at surrender. The plan proceeded, and the Nut's survivors fled to the city center, where the rebels were waiting for them. A rebel figure was poised to give a speech to the Nut personnel when they suddenly rushed to the aid of a wounded man, shouting for rebels to hold their fire. He pulled a gun and demanded a reason not to shoot. The reply confused him enough to make them pause. Despairing over all the pain the rebels and Capitol had caused each other, the bow was lowered and even dropped as he was told to shoot. Continued prompting allowed the statement to be turned back around into a compelling speech about district unity against the Capitol. However, this ended when an unknown man in the crowd fired.

Aftermath of the bombing

The rebel figure survived but suffered serious injuries and was transported to recover. Meanwhile, District 8 became the last district to ally with the rebels. The destruction of the Nut knocked out much of the Capitol's air force and logistical capabilities, dealing a crushing blow to its war effort. This was the point where the war turned in favor of the rebels and set the stage for the rebels' final assault on the Capitol itself.