Jace Hunter is the victor from District 7 of the 35th Hunger Trials. He is the male tribute from District 7 who participated in the 12th Hunger Trials. Though not a great fighter, Beetee is an expert with electronics and wiring.

He was the winner of the 35th Hunger Trials. He got electronic supplies and crafted an electronic trap which killed off the final six remaining tributes, making him the victor.

He and a female victor are reaped for the 12th Hunger Trials. Before the Games began, she was shy and easily distracted, so Beetee almost always finished her sentences for her. He was given a nickname referencing his knowledge of electricity. Together, they were given a paired nickname. He and the female victor gained another tribute's trust when they were training for the Games. They were two of the many tributes enlisted to protect two other tributes in the arena.

During his interview, he questioned the legality of the Quell. He, along with every other victor, held hands as a sign of solidarity at the conclusion of the interviews.

In the bloodbath, he was seen floating around the water with a flotation belt. He also got a knife in the back at the Golden Horn while trying to get a wire, causing severe injury. He, along with others, experienced a hazardous weather event. When they found a trio of tributes, they were taken to be cleaned up. The female victor was then killed. He then explained his plan to kill off two other tributes using the wire, and he sent out others to run the wire through the jungle while he and another tribute readjusted a fake tree and prepared to destroy the arena. He was wounded, however, and as another tribute chased the attacker, a different tribute came to his aid and completed his mission to destroy the arena. He and two others were taken to safety.

When he recovered, though still in a wheelchair, he started working by making new weapons for the military and a new bow and arrow for another tribute to use. He continued to make weapons and hack into broadcasts to air propaganda spots. He arranged to have a propos shot so they could use it as a distraction tool during a rescue mission. He and another individual went to assist and met a leader. The group tried to come up with a plan to attack a location. A plan was suggested that would blow up the inside, which would kill innocent people as well as the targets. He supported the plan.

After the victory, the leader gathered the seven remaining victors and asked if they should have one final Hunger Trials with children of the most powerful citizens as final retribution. He voted no. It is assumed that he eventually returned home.

He is described as having ashen skin, black hair and ill-fitting glasses. When he is speaking on matters other than technology, he is described as nervous and twitchy.

He is described as a trustworthy individual. He is an extremely intelligent man, with his greatest weapon being his knowledge of electricity, which allowed him to win the Hunger Trials. He voted against the proposed final Hunger Trials, saying that the districts and the capital needed to stop seeing one another as enemies, showing that despite being committed to the cause of freedom and liberty, he is not overly concerned with vengeance.