The Capitol Coliseum was a dilapidated amphitheater that was later appropriated as the first Hunger Trials arena. The 1st through 10th Hunger Trials were held there. After the 10th Hunger Trials, the arena was abandoned and the Gamemakers began using existing settings in the wild or bombed-out towns before building separate arenas for each game.

The arena was once a state-of-the-art amphitheater used for various sporting, entertainment, and military events. During a period of conflict, high-profile executions were staged there, making it a prime target for bombers. Once it became the first Hunger Trials arena, tributes were locked in with nothing but weapons while the audience watched. At the conclusion of each competition, the bodies would be removed and the doors locked until the next year.

Prior to one Games, the arena suffered a major bombing. The explosion blew the arena apart, leaving a hole in the floor. After the bombing, plans to hold the Games there continued. Betting, sponsorship, and sponsor gifts were introduced for the first time this year, which would provide tributes with food and water.

The arena itself was shaped like an oval. Bombings left the ground littered with craters and rubble, and the once-lush grass had died from lack of maintenance. There was a high wall separating the field from the stands; however, wartime bombings created handholds that allowed tributes to climb up into the bleachers and concession stands. The bombing shortly before the Games created new debris and blew open several gates. This allowed tributes to access tunnels in the arena's walls where they could hide. The arena was not particularly secure; it was left unguarded in between the annual Games.

The lobby was outside the tributes' regular area of play. It held boarded-up booths, turnstiles, and hallways with openings to the arena's different levels of seating. Past the turnstiles was the main gate. The main gate had been blown open by the bombing, so a barricade was erected. However, this barricade was more for show than security. Its main purpose was to block the audience's view. The first actual fortification was set up at the turnstiles. For the Games, a pair of steel poles were set up on the field near the entrance, joined by a wooden crossbeam. Many tributes' deaths took place on or around this structure.

On the fourth day of one Games, a tank of Mutt Serpents was unleashed. They were brightly colored, and they heavily relied on their sense of smell because their hearing and sight were poor. If they smelled an unfamiliar scent, they attacked it. Once a storm rolled around, most of the snakes died because they drowned or could not regulate their temperature.

There was no access to food and water in the arena itself, leaving tributes to die of dehydration, starve, or get killed by better-fed competitors during the early Games. The introduction of sponsors allowed audiences to pay to provide for their favorite tributes.