The Central Zoo is located in the The Central City. Before the Crimson Conflict, the Central Zoo was full of many types of animals from a genetic ark. After the Crimson Conflict, many of the enclosures were left empty, ravaged by the war. Few animals remained, such as a lone tortoise and a bedraggled toucan.
Following the Crimson Conflict, the zoo was infested by rats. In order to try to control the problem, the Sentinel Corps guarding the zoo were supplied with rat poison. The rats, however, were smart and wouldn't go anywhere near the stuff.

The tributes for the The Fire Games: Ten were brought to the Central Zoo upon arrival to the The Central City.
They were dropped through a chute into the monkey enclosure and held there until the Games began.
The Central City citizens were encouraged to come see the tributes as if they were zoo animals. After a scene was made, citizens were encouraged to come visit the tributes.
After this, The Central City citizens frequented the zoo, bringing food and water for the tributes, feeding them like animals through the enclosure bars. Initially, many of the tributes were hesitant to accept food. However, after some urging, many of them grew comfortable enough to. Many citizens visited the zoo, and several tributes would perform for them, but the tributes remained underfed and mistreated. However, after the issue was raised, the tributes were fed bread and cheese.
One day, a tribute was taunted with food. This angered the tribute, leading to a killing. This incident caused mass panic, and Sentinel Corps were to guard the zoo from then on.

One of the parties a victor was forced to attend after winning the 50th Hunger Games was an all-night party at the Central Zoo.

The monkey house had a stretch of sand, tall artificial rock formations, and rows of metal bars engraved to resemble vines.
A shallow moat separated the rocky structures and the bars, but was bone-dry by the time of the The Fire Games: Ten.
The bars were spaced about four inches apart.