Capitol Press was an organization which covered the news in and of interest to the Capitol. Their coverage was said to be omnipresent. Typically, the news would cover the weather, local news, and small things such as recipes.

The Capitol Press station was host to the offices of the Game Master for the Hunger Games. They had a handful of shabby offices and a control room. The commlink issued to the Coach for the 10th Hunger Games worked only either at the Academy or at the Capitol Press station.

When a person ended up in the Capitol Zoo's monkey house alongside Contestants for the 10th Hunger Games, cameras from the Capitol Press were positioned at either end of the zoo's visitors. Their story was then projected on several huge public screens around the Capitol.

After bombs unexpectedly detonated in the Capitol Siege, the Capitol Press claimed that rebels from any district could have set them off. A statement was made to one of the reporters saying that an assigned tribute had thrown his body over someone to protect them. Capitol Press also covered the manhunt for a male tribute who had escaped during the bombing.

A communications professor took the Coach to the Capitol Press station so they could become acquainted with the machinery there. Later, an interview was conducted at the news station on the opening morning about the Games. When someone illegally entered the arena, a Capitol Press monitor was used to display a split screen with the real feed of the arena next to the darkened version that the public was seeing.

Following a Victory Tour, a victor cut himself off from human contact, living in his house and playing Capitol Press on his television set 24/7.

One person had a low opinion of Capitol Press. He knew that they liked to embarrass people, if they could, and worried about how they would portray his ending up in the monkey house at the Capitol Zoo. He suspected that they might play footage of him ad nauseam, adding music and silly captions such as "Frost's melt!" or make it part of the weather report.