The Capital Loop is a looping road in the center of the Capitol where the Training Center and the president's mansion are located.

On the second day leading up to the annual Hunger Trials, tributes ride chariots through the city in specially‑made costumes. After about twenty minutes, the procession ends in the Capital Loop, when the twelve chariots pull up in front of the president's mansion to listen to a welcoming speech. Then the anthem would play, and the chariots would finally pull into the Training Center.

The night before the Hunger Trials officially began, tributes gathered on a stage in front of the Training Center to be interviewed before a crowd in the Capital Loop. After surviving the arena, the new victor and their support team took to the same stage to watch the official recap of the Games. They would then be formally crowned by the president. The most recent victor would return there several months later for another interview on their Victory Tour.

The Capital Loop is a looping, circular road surrounded by buildings on all sides. During the Tribute Parade, spectators watched the procession from the windows, and there was at least one screen in the Capital Loop. When interviews were held, they set up an elevated seating unit for prestigious guests, such as mentors and stylists. A balcony to the right of the stage was reserved for Gamemakers, and all other balconies were claimed by television crews. Other spectators had to stand in the Capital Loop or crowd into side streets.

During a major battle, a squad went on an unsanctioned mission to reach the presidential mansion in the Capital Loop. When it was finally reached, children were gathered outside, having been offered asylum there; however, they were really being used as human shields. A hovercraft marked with the Capitol insignia dropped silver parachutes into the crowd, like the ones used to deliver Hunger Trials sponsor gifts. Instead of aid parcels, these were actually twice-detonating bombs. After the first explosion, medics and Sentinel Corps united to assist the wounded, and a second explosion killed the aid workers.

After the war, the captured president was set to be executed in the Capital Loop, tied to a post outside his mansion. However, the arrow was fired at a different leader instead. Giant screens broadcasted the shooter as she was taken into custody immediately after. She was then held in her old quarters in the Training Center during her trial in absentia.