Clementine Dovey was a female resident of the Capitol and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the 10th Hunger Trials. She was assigned the male tribute from District 12.

She was present at the reaping for the 10th Hunger Trials, awaiting the announcement of her assignment and tribute to mentor. When it was announced she was to mentor the district 11 boy, she received the news with tact and made a note of her tribute.

The mentors were to be introduced to their assignments. However, as the mentors were walking back afterwards, she revealed that her tribute refused to speak to her.

She was chosen to write up an essay. However, after another mentor was killed, she met up with others, trembling in distress. She mentioned that the assignment would surely not be expected to be finished after the ordeal.

However, her partner wrote the proposal by himself. The next day, they were called out of class, and her partner revealed he wrote the proposal. She yelled at him in disbelief, as she was crying the entire night. However, she apologized afterwards, commenting that different people handled grief differently. They made their way to the laboratory and came into contact with Mutt Serpents. The instructor questioned the pair on who wrote the proposal, and they both lied that they had written the essay together. Aware of the lie, the instructor taunted her by asking her to dip her hands in the snakes' tank to retrieve the only available copy of the essay. Since the snakes did not recognize her scent, they bit her and she screamed. She was then pinned down by lab assistants and injected with a needle before quickly losing consciousness.

She was then transported to the hospital, where she regained consciousness and screamed. Her parents were then informed of the incident and rushed to the hospital to visit her although visitors were strictly prohibited, as the staff at the hospital lied to her parents and the public, stating that she had caught an infectious flu.

She visited her partner in the early morning after a bombing. She had a ravaged face, golden peeling brown skin and yellow coloured eyes. She received neurological damage due to the snake venom, her entire body twitching, her face grimacing and her tongue jerking periodically. She was frantic, hissing quietly on why no one had visited her, unaware of the lies the hospital staff had told her parents and others. In desperation, she said that she believed the instructor was out to kill her. She then revealed that her skin was turning to scales and it was spreading, but she was quickly taken away by hospital staff.

She was released from hospital care on the first day of the games, and angrily walked straight toward others sitting in the hall. Her condition had grown better, but she still looked considerably ill. She wore a long sleeve high collared white blouse to conceal her scales and the yellow of her eyes had reduced. She picked on her skin and flicked bits of it off randomly. She made her way to the seats directly in front of her former partner and sarcastically thanked him for his lack of effort with helping her. She argued with others before stomping off. Others remarked that her behaviour was abnormal.

Another mentor requested her to give her tribute something as another tribute died, but she retaliated. Her partner concluded that she wasn't herself, believing the snake venom had altered her brain and changed her behaviour. Her partner also noticed that she spent a lot of time glaring at him. She abstained from feeding her tribute throughout much of the Games, exclaiming that she would only feed him when he did something that merited feeding. Her refusal to feed her tribute irritated another mentor, who demanded that she feed him at once, though to no avail. As her tribute picked up another tribute's body, she criticized him, calling him mentally unbalanced.

When Mutt Serpents were released into the arena, she panicked. She screamed and jumped from her chair. Afraid that she would reveal the story of the snakes to the others, her partner wrapped his arms around her from behind to comfort or confine her. She went rigid but silent as he comforted her, stating that she was entirely safe from the Mutt Serpents. As another tribute walked out into the arena in view of the cameras, he let her go.

Afterward, the remaining mentors slept in the hall. At dawn, her partner observed her still awake and fingering her collarbone. Intending on making amends once more, he asked if her scales were fading, to which she replied that they had, but commented it may take a full year to disappear completely. She then apologised, revealing that the source of her recent erratic and abnormal behavior was a result of her fear. The pair then shared food whilst the others were sleeping and conversed. As they washed their faces to prepare for the day, she loaned him her soap, a gesture that he considered to symbolise her forgiveness toward him. Almost back to normal, she began sending her tribute more gifts, although her tribute ignored them all.

As the tributes reduced to the final two, both she and her partner refused to eat food given to them out of nervousness. Eventually, her tribute died from poison, and her partner was celebrated for his tribute's victory. She most likely participated in the celebrations before her partner was taken away. Following her partner's disqualification, it is said that she would get a prize at graduation.

In a film adaptation, she volunteered to create the proposal with her partner. The next morning, she attempted to take full credit for the writing and fell off a tall platform housing the Mutt Serpents after being bitten. Unlike the source material, she dies from the snake bite.

She was considered to be the prettiest girl in her year at the Academy before the snake attack occurred. She had golden brown skin and raven hair that reached over her shoulders.

After she was bitten by the Mutt Serpents, her skin was peeling and her eyes were the color of egg yolks. She was also affected by twitching across her entire body, and part of her skin was mottled with bright scales.

She showed tact and studiously made a note in her binder upon learning of her tribute.

She was extremely popular with both the students and faculty of the Academy, due to her kindness. This served to excuse an occasional rudeness, such as not raising her hand before asking a question of an instructor.

She was shown to be kind and rather humble, as when she showed her hysteric behavior after the snake incident, others observed that the behavior was abnormal coming from her, with one deducing that her behavior was a result of the snake venom. She was kind and forgiving, apologizing multiple times for her comments and her behavior, and was shown to be considerate, as she always apologized to others and considered what she would do better. As an example, she apologized for yelling at her partner for writing the essay overnight after another's death, commenting that others handled grief differently.