Elias Clade, sometimes known as CC, was a member of the Minstrels, and he played the fiddle in their band. He was the younger brother of another member, and later in life, he was a guardian to an adopted niece.

During the Covey's first musical performance at the Hob after the The Hunger Games: Ten, Clerk Carmine played his way across the stage after being introduced. During a song, he embellished the melody with some fancy finger work on his fiddle while the others backed him up.

When another member appeared at the performance after being kicked out, trying to convince them to take him back, he tried to appeal to Clerk Carmine, but Carmine stood his ground and did not reply. Later, when that member came back to the house they lived in, Clerk Carmine looked unhappy. Another member worried about Clerk Carmine, as he still missed his brother.

He retrieved a churn that had been made, hoping to make cream for butter. Even though it was said to be a fool's errand, he hoped it might work if they gave it another day.

During a discussion of a ballad, he chimed in after one member said that the subject was different, calling her a "bonehead" and saying that she was a ghost. However, the other member didn't think this possible. At the lake, Clerk Carmine brought another member some katniss, but it wasn't yet in season for eating.

After a member fell asleep, Clerk Carmine brought over a bright blue feather he had found, wanting it to be an anonymous gift for her. When she awoke, she admired the feather and it was fixed in her hair. While heading back to town, Clerk Carmine spotted a tree full of apples and climbed it to throw down fruit to the others.

For thirty years, Clerk Carmine was in a relationship with a man who lived in town. They kept their relationship a secret to avoid harassment and discrimination.

By the time of the 50th Hunger Games, he had an adopted niece, who he raised with another member after her mother died giving birth to her. He did not approve of her relationship with a local boy. He also discour… etc. (the text continues)...