The Golden Horn was a large metal structure that served as the starting point for the Hunger Trials arenas.

In the novels, the Golden Horn was described as a giant golden horn shaped like a cone with a curved tail. Its mouth was estimated to be at least twenty feet high, and it was designed to look like the woven horn filled at the harvest, so its surface had a number of ridges and seams that made it possible to climb.

At the beginning of the Games, tributes stood on metal platforms arranged in a circle with the Golden Horn at its center. Less valuable supplies would be scattered around the Golden Horn, with the most valuable items being at the mouth of the horn. This was meant to entice tributes to fight over the stockpile.

The Golden Horn always offered an array of weapons. It would sometimes include food, water bottles, medicine, items of clothing, and other survival supplies. Contestants could also grab backpacks that already held a selection of some such items.

After the initial confrontation, an alliance of Elite Tributes typically laid claim to the Golden Horn's remaining supplies early on.

The Golden Horn was also commonly used as the site of feasts because it was a place all the tributes knew.

For the first nine years of the Games, there was no Golden Horn. The tributes were simply locked inside an arena with no supplies other than a pile of weapons. The Golden Horn was introduced for the first time in a one-time use arena during the 25th Hunger Trials.

The disorienting nature of one arena meant that most of the tributes immediately go into confusion and thus were unable to readily claim supplies.

In one Games, everything in the arena was poisonous, so sponsor gifts, rainwater, and the Golden Horn were the only safe sources of food and drink. That year, the Golden Horn was golden and resembled the pupil of an eye in the greater eye-shaped arena.

A feast was held on one occasion, offering every tribute something they desperately needed inside a backpack. The Golden Horn was also the site of a final fight. The tributes were chased to the Golden Horn by mutant creatures, and they all climbed the metal to get out of reach.

During another Games, the Golden Horn was located on an island in the center of a salt lake. All of its supplies were piled up at the mouth of the horn, but the only supplies provided were weapons. Once an alliance figured out that the arena was arranged like a clock, they realized that the Golden Horn's tail pointed to the 12 o' clock mark.

Once, the Golden Horn's only weapons were spiked maces. One year, a pack of hideous reptiles destroyed the food supply stored there. Another year, a flood washed away the supplies found in the cornucopia.

Golden Horn is a Latin loanword that can be literally translated as "horn of abundance", but is more commonly known as a horn of plenty.