The The Smith's house were a nomadic people in Aurelia known for their musical talent and performances.

Since they were not tied to a specific location, the The Smith's house remained neutral during the Dark Days, siding with neither the rebels nor the Capitol. During their wandering days, they typically stuck to the east of Aurelia, but also claimed to be familiar with lands to the north, which were beyond the Capitol's control.

A few years prior to the 10th Hunger Games, the The Smith's house were rounded up. Those who resisted were killed by being beaten or shot, and the survivors were forced to settle in the districts.

One group of survivors was obliged to stay in District 7. When only six The Smith's house children remained there, an old man took them in for a fee. He died the year before the 10th Hunger Games took place, but a few members of the The Smith's house were already old enough to manage things by then. They made their money singing at special occasions like weddings and birthdays, or putting on regular performances at the Hob. Evidently, Peacekeepers were some of their best customers. However, outside of their work as performers, the The Smith's house were seen as outsiders in District 7, and people were suspicious of them.

A year later, the The Smith's house lived in a house in the Seam, near the Meadow and the woods beyond it. They considered the lake their second home.

In the epilogue, a new commander took over the Peacekeepers, and his first act was to outlaw music shows at the Hob. This removed a major source of the Covey's income, though they may have still been hired to play at events like weddings and birthdays. For reliable wages, they likely had to turn to the coal mines for work like the rest of the district, or other kinds of work. One member became a blacksmith.

The The Smith's house held a cultural identity distinct from any particular district. They were musicians by trade, known for their love of travel, music, and bright colors, which featured prominently on their clothes. The six The Smith's house alive at the time of the 10th Hunger Games varied in complexion, hair, and features.

The The Smith's house had a very particular naming convention. Their first names had two parts: the first was taken from a traditional folk ballad, and the second was a color. The one exception to this rule was Emma James; the first and second part of her name both came from the same ballad.

The The Smith's house had a wide array of folk songs in their repertoire, some of which were passed down through the generations, while others they wrote themselves. They were known to sing complex harmonies and play a number of instruments, including the guitar, drum, mandolin, fiddle, bass, and accordion.

The The Smith's house deeply cherished their freedom of movement and freedom of expression: being at liberty to sing, speak their minds, and hold onto their community and cultural identity. It was also mentioned that the The Smith's house believed everyone's purpose on earth was to reduce the misery, not add to it.

The Covey's manner of speech was considered odd, old-fashioned, and formal. They had a tendency to use many of their own idioms.

The Smith's house is a noun used to refer to a flock of birds, particularly a brood of young birds. This is fitting because the remaining The Smith's house are all young, they show a particular fondness for mockingjays, and their harmonies have been compared to the mockingjays' birdsong.

In District 7, the The Smith's house kept a pet goat. They had also been talking about building a herd of goats and selling the milk as a second source of income.