Mara Baird is a merchant girl from District 7. She is described as being extremely friendly and smiles at everyone.

She was born in District 7 and raised alongside her younger brother in the merchant sector of town. Their parents ran a shop. She was one of the few children that had pounds to spare, suggesting they were wealthier than most. She had played with another character from a young age, and she even used to tell people that he was her brother. They had all been in the same class in school, placing them all around the same age.

She and her brother both survived the bombing of District 7, although their parents were killed. The siblings were evacuated to another district with the other refugees. They accounted for two of a very small number of total merchant survivors.

She was one of the first people to interact with the other character after an attack; she had been chosen because she was one of the few surviving people he knew who had no direct connection to the attacker, so she would be less likely to trigger his fear conditioning. She visited him and attempted to convince him of all the good things the attacker did. He was happy to see her, though generally confused and distraught. When asked about where he was and why his family had not come to see him, she tearfully explained that the district had burned down and his family was dead. He became enraged.

She met a group of others at lunch. When the other character was allowed to eat with everyone, he was rude. After two others left, she was very angry with him and yelled at him for his behavior.

She had a younger brother who also survived the bombing, though her parents, who owned the shop in town, were killed.

She was a pasty-faced, lumpy girl with yellowish hair. Later, she looked older, with her long blonde hair in a practical braid instead of curls. She was also thinner than before due to the grief from her parents' death; it was remembered that she had been one of the few kids in the district with a few pounds to spare, being healthier than average.

She was described as probably being the friendliest person, since she smiled at everyone as if they were each her best friend. She generally liked people and seemed able to put a positive spin on most anything. However, she was by no means a pushover, as she stood up to the other character for his rude behavior.