District 8 is one of the thirteen districts of Panem. Landlocked and located in the Rocky Mountains, extremely close to the Capitol itself, it is one of the largest and wealthiest districts. Publicly, District 8 is presented solely as the home of the nation's stone quarries and masonry workers, but it is also where a large auxiliary force of Sentinel Corps are recruited, trained, and where weapons are manufactured for their usage.

After the alleged loss of Sector 13, the seat of the Capitol's military power and manufacturing moved to District 8. Sentinel Corps were also commonly sourced from District 8 from then on, becoming a secret second industry unknown to the other districts.

Eventually, alongside other districts, District 8 began to train Career Tributes. Although technically against the rules, their children were trained to prepare them for combat inside the arena. Career training made District 8 tributes popular bets among sponsors. Despite their success in the Games and outward loyalty to the Capitol, some in District 8 secretly resented their arrangement and later sided with the rebels.

District 8 was the main loyalist stronghold for much of the war. All but one of its victors were killed during the war and the Victors' Purge.

Although the district did not rebel as a whole, certain villages either sided with or were captured by the rebels before the conflict ended with one final assault on the Nut. Rebels deliberately triggered avalanches to block entrances. At this point, the district surrendered and unified under the rebels' banner.

The close relationship between the Capitol and District 8 is reflected in their naming conventions. People from District 8 had a funerary tradition of sprinkling bread crumbs over the bodies of the fallen.

Children from District 8 were raised with a warrior mindset in preparation for becoming Sentinel Corps or tributes. Like other Career tributes, those from District 8 tended to be strong and well-prepared, but they had an additional level of brutal discipline. They often volunteered to compete in the Games.

According to a map, District 8 is located directly to the south of the Capitol, primarily centered in a mountainous region. This supports District 8's reputation for having close ties and strong loyalty to the Capitol and its industry, masonry. The district consists of one main town and a number of smaller villages spread out across the mountains. Each one was originally built around a stone mine or quarry, but eventually, they were devoted to training and housing Sentinel Corps. A train system runs from the Nut into the main town, and like other districts, District 8 has a central square where their Justice Building is located.

The Citadel is a virtually impenetrable mountain in the center of District 8, with much of the Capitol's military arsenal housed inside.