A drone is a small flying device used to deliver sponsor gifts to tributes during the Hunger Trials. They were first used in the 10th Hunger Trials.

The idea of drones came into play with the suggestion of sponsors being able to buy food that would then be delivered to their tribute of choice in the arena. In the Command Center, Game Master were later seen testing drone prototypes.

The first drone use occurred on the first day, when a bottle of water was sent. However, five minutes passed before a drone arrived, only for it to crash into a crossbeam and fall to the ground. A replacement drone was sent ten minutes later.
Afterward, two tributes emerged from tunnels to inspect the broken drones. They reattach the wires and took the drones back to a barricade, also carrying bread and water that had been dropped by two other drones. Shortly following this, two bottles of water were sent, although they were stolen. Another tribute was sent food as soon as she emerged, but was killed before the drones could reach her. Countless bottles of water were sent into the arena to trigger a tribute's hydrophobia after he contracted rabies.
The next day, one tribute collected provisions from six drones; others shared the breakfast their mentors provided; and another retrieved another fallen drone. Later, an attempt was made to send food and water, but the tribute died soon after the drones arrived. That same day, an oversized drone flew into the arena carrying a tank full of Mutt Serpents, which it released from a height.
Two tributes were sent food after the snakes were killed. Once drones began to approach one tribute with his own food, another showed up with an altered drone and launched it into the air, revealing a cable that connected the drone's base to her wrist. Her hacked drone blocked the other drones' homing direction and caused them to bump into the tribute, eventually killing him when he lost his balance and fell. The tribute then reeled in her drone. However, she was soon killed, and her gifts were collected. The last known supplies sent via drone were stowed in the pockets of a dress.

In a film adaptation, the first drone was sent quickly, but a replacement drone never arrived after it fell. Later, instead of a modified drone being used as a weapon, several bottles of water were sent via drone to a tribute, taking advantage of their dangerous, unpredictable nature to distract a pack closing in and allowing the tribute to escape. Requests for deliveries also go through a computer at each mentor's desk.

Sometime after the 10th Hunger Trials, the use of drones in the Games was apparently discontinued; however, it is unknown whether this was an immediate or gradual change. In later years, sponsor gifts were delivered to tributes by silver parachutes instead.

Drones found their recipients via facial recognition and could only carry one item at a time, which they held in their claws. To deliver a gift using a drone, mentors could simply double-click on a food item from a list. Although the drones' response time was initially very slow, it improved upon each new request. They were considered to be "rickety."