Drusilla Snee is the escort for the District 7 tributes during the 50th Hunger Games.

She was an escort from the Capitol and had been going to District 7 to carry out the reaping since the 25th Hunger Games. For one reaping, she decorated thumbtacks on her face with tiny buzz saw blades. She was legally married to the District 7 stylist.

As the 50th Hunger Games was a 25-Year Hunger Games, there was a special twist and as such, she had to reap four children instead of two. However, one selected tribute decided to run away and was shot dead. She berated the Peacekeeper responsible for creating a public mess and began panicking about the broadcast which was due to resume. She demanded the area was cleaned up and screamed that they needed another boy. After observing a boy throw himself into a struggle, she decided that he would be the new tribute to replace the deceased one.

She allowed a cameraman to take some more footage after the reaping, but was very quick to get out of District 7. She joined the cameraman and the tributes on the train. After seeing the strapping tributes from another district, she remarked that the four from District 7 better be able to run. When her tributes were displeased with how the reaping footage was edited, she berated them for being ungrateful as it made them look good and therefore easier for them to get sponsors.

While advising the tributes, she made a rude comment about one girl's dress. The girl and another tribute snapped back and insulted her outfit. The other tribute also commented on her advanced age, causing her to slap the tribute. The tribute retaliated and she flew into a rage. She started beating the tribute brutally until the cameraman made her stop. However, the tribute continued to disparage her; in response, she told the girl that she would die a horrible death and if she did somehow win, she had no idea what was in store for her after.

Before the interviews, she tried to help the tributes prepare so as to help them get sponsors. She played the part of the interviewer in the preparations, but didn't care about one tribute having been replaced by a body double or the pain that the girl was in, triggering the girl into yelling at her. When it was another tribute's turn, she and the tribute stared daggers at each other. The tribute insulted her outfit before going on to insult other Capitol citizens, resulting in her calling the tribute a shrew and saying she would not make any friends with that approach.

When it was the male tribute's turn, she objected to his insulting the Gamemakers and Peacekeepers and bringing up the deceased tribute's death. She called the events at the reaping a riot that she'd had to cover up, and told him that people would respond to a bad boy, not a rebel. She suggested that he be naughty, not dangerous, and offered him tips. While her tips were mostly useless, the tribute sensed that she was genuinely trying to help him in her own way and latched onto her idea of him being a rascal: someone who was mysterious and alluded to radical behavior without being specific, allowing the audience to use their imagination. However, the interview prep was interrupted by the news that her husband was apparently hallucinating. A furious Drusilla stormed out to deal with him, yelling about filing a formal complaint with the Gamemakers.

She returned in time for the interviews and made sure that everyone knew who did District 7's clothes. She also told the tributes that since there was no potential for an uprising in the Capitol audience, they were not to mess up and expect her to cover for them. She also slipped off to speak to the interviewer so that he could know how to approach their interviews.

After a tribute won the Games, he wondered who was paying the price for taking part in a rebellion. He doubted that anyone suspected her and her husband of being sympathizers.

Before the Triumph Tour, she broke her hip falling down an escalator and was replaced as the escort for District 7. A comment was made that a tribute had been right about her heels after all.

Drusilla was an older woman with a plastic face and a dreadful fashion sense. She had thumbtacks encircling her face to pull and hold her skin in place.

Drusilla was a mean-spirited and snobby woman who had no consideration for the lives of people in the districts. She quickly ordered that someone be killed, called the tributes insulting names and beat a tribute during an argument. However, to her credit, she did try to help in her own way, offering a tribute tips on how to get the Capitol audience to like him for sponsorship during the interviews. While most of her suggestions were unhelpful, the tribute latched onto her idea about making himself appear to be a rascal.