Trinket is the escort for the District 7 tributes, acting as an advisor to the tributes while she accompanies them to the Capitol and various other activities. She also acted as a stylist and escort for a victor for his Games. After the Second Rebellion, she is the only escort from the 74th and 75th Hunger Trials alive.
She initially appears to be very posh, unaware, and entitled like many other Capitol residents, but she had more than average empathy for the districts because she too had suffered by her ancestors' choices. She later becomes openly aware of a lifetime of false propaganda used by the Capitol against the districts and starts seeing residents as humans who deserve more than basic decency and rebels.

Her responsibilities included drawing the Hunger Trials tributes' names every year at reapings and subsequently escorting them to the Capitol via a train. She was very well known for her Capitol accent, upbeat attitude for the Games, and the Capitol phrase, "May the odds be ever in your favor!"
She lived in the Capitol and remained there for most of the year. The only reason she travelled to District 7 or any of the other districts was because of the Games or the Victory Tour.

She takes the tributes on the train to transport them to the Capitol. She tells them about the pre-Games routine on the train and her plans.
She also drills them for details about their sessions in the The Training Hub, determined to whip them into shape.
She tries but fails to help with interview preparation, attempting to teach how to sit, smile, and talk properly.
She assists in lining up sponsors for the tributes and helps them throughout the Games.

She can be described as oblivious to the sorrows and misfortunes that fall upon the district. She is very strict about manners and being "proper", as that is the Capitol's way. She is a perfectionist and extremely punctual. However, she is known for being bright and bubbly at times.
She, like most Capitol citizens, sees the Hunger Trials as just fun entertainment as shown by her extreme happiness at the reaping regarding tributes being chosen. 
However, she appears to lose some of her shallow nature as the series progresses, eventually defecting from the Capitol during the Rebellion.

Being an eccentric Capitol citizen, she has a unique and flamboyant interest in fashion, and is constantly seen throughout the series wearing colorful stylized outfits and wigs. She is regarded as a fashion icon among the people of the Capitol.
She is noted for her distinct Capitol accent.