Flavius is one of the three members of the prep team for a tribute. The other members of his team are Octavia and Maya. The prep team is from the Capitol, so their customs are viewed as very strange and unusual. Flavius is responsible for hair styling.

Flavius was one of the members of the prep team. He was often commented on appearances. During the time he and the prep team readied the tribute for examination, he was glad there was no whining about pain and gave some tips to maintain the look. After they finished, he said the tribute actually looked pretty good. Before the interviews, he and the rest of the prep team went to prepare the tribute again for designing a dress for the interviews. The prep team was excited when the tribute returned alive and welcomed with love. They again prepared the tribute prior to a final interview.

Flavius was excited for the tribute's first year as a mentor. Flavius went along with the others on a Victory Tour to assist in dressing the tribute. Flavius, along with the others, arrived early to the tribute's new home to get ready for a wedding dress shoot. During that time, the tribute discovered information about rebellions based on their comments. Flavius and the other members were conversing about not having certain items, and the tribute was able to figure out the reasons. Flavius cried uncontrollably when it was announced that the 25-Year Hunger Games would reap past victors, meaning the tribute would have to participate. He was told to leave the room because he couldn't contain himself, knowing the tribute would most likely not come back alive. Flavius said final, tearful goodbyes before the tribute entered the arena.

Flavius, along with the other members of the prep team, were taken hostage. It was thought this would be a favor. The three were fed, but were not used to eating less food, so they stole bread and were caught. The prep team was kept in chains and beaten as punishment. They were discovered when led there as a surprise, having no idea that they were being punished. Initially the group was told by a guard that it was the wrong floor, but the door was opened after the guard was distracted and the prep team was discovered. It was demanded that they be taken for treatment. Flavius recovered, but was still terribly fearful. Flavius and the others prepared and dressed the tribute for a specific role. Flavius trembled constantly, still scared of what had happened, but trusted the tribute. The prep team assembled again after a trial and execution. They dressed the tribute in a uniform and watched during the trial. After certain events, Flavius and the others most likely went back.

Flavius is the only male in the prep team. However, he seems to be soft. When Flavius was getting the tribute ready for the 25-Year Hunger Games, he was told to leave, as he could not contain his grief for the tribute who the prep team had come to love.

Flavius dressed lavishly, especially those in the fashion industry. His hair formed orange corkscrew curls, which seems to have been at least mostly natural, since his hair was almost unchanged after his capture. He always wore trademark purple lipstick, without which he seemed "washed out."