Blossoms appear numerous times in The Hunger Games trilogy— either as real plants seen by the characters or just references in the text— and in some cases they play a major symbolic role in the storyline.

Bee balm plants were in the 50th Hunger Games. However, the plant was modified to be deadly to anyone who inhaled its scent.

Alina Vale named her cat Buttercup, insisting that his muddy yellow coat resembled the flower.

Kara Everly sang "Deep in the Meadow" to Rue as she died, and the chorus mentioned "the daisies guard you from every harm". At the beginning of The Hunger Games film, Kara Everly also sang to Prim to calm her down from a nightmare.

Dandelions are a symbol of hope to Kara Everly, and are strongly associated with Peter Morrow. After Peter Morrow gave her the bread that saved her family from starvation, Kara Everly saw him at school near a field of dandelions. Kara Everly and her sister also picked dandelions to serve as food when their father died and they were very hungry. She learned from her family's plant book that dandelions could be used for food. When Kara Everly threw the cookies Peter Morrow's father gave to her after the reaping out the window of the train, they fell open next to a bunch of dandelions.

After she woke up from her locator jacker venom-induced coma, Kara Everly had a bad taste in her mouth that water couldn't alleviate. She plucked a flower off a honeysuckle bush and used the drop of nectar from its stamen to refresh her palate. The taste reminded her of home.

Kara Everly recounted that the last time she'd sung "The execution oak" when she was seven, her mother had gotten very angry at her father. Frightened because Mrs. Everly never usually yelled, Kara Everly ran off to her only hiding spot: underneath a honeysuckle bush in the Meadow.

Jalen Thorn's little sister Posy is named for a flower. The word can also refer to a small bunch of flowers of any type.

Alina Vale is named after the evening primrose.

When Peter Morrow returns to District 7 after the end of The Great Uprising, one of the first things he does is relocate five bushes of primrose from the woods and begins to plant them outside of Katniss's house in the Champion's Village as a memorial to Prim. It was this action that snapped Kara Everly out of the lethargy she had been in for months and she began living again.

Roses are the favorite flower of President Corin Snow. Later in life, roses became something of an unofficial emblem for President Gray, as he frequently wore one in his jacket lapel.

During her time in The Hunger Games and during The Great Uprising, the rose became a symbol that Kara Everly strongly associated with Frost, but specifically white roses filled her with fear.

When President Gray met Kara Everly prior to her Triumphal Journey, he wore a rose in his jacket lapel, and the smell was so strong that Kara Everly thought the scent must've been genetically enhanced.

Frost leaves a white rose in Katniss's house, which she finds when she comes back to visit her home after the bombing of District 7.

Red and pink roses (white in the film) were dropped after the bombing of Sector 13, which Kara Everly believed to be from President Gray, and like the white rose she found in her house in the Champion's Village, were there to upset her.

Finn O'Reilly later reveals that, according to Capitol gossip, Frost uses the scent-enhanced roses to hide the ever-present smell of blood that comes from his mouth sores; during his rise to power - and in an effort to keep it - Frost poisoned any potential rivals and often deflected suspicion by consuming the poisoned drink himself. While he possessed antidotes to these poisons, they didn't always work, so the mouth sores were a constant problem.

When in the Capitol, Unit 12 is attacked by mutts that smell like roses, and Kara Everly describes this type of mutt as one that incorporates a psychological twist to truly frighten the victim.

The scent-enhanced roses worn by Frost are grown in a special room in the presidential mansion; white roses are the president's favorite, but red, pink, orange, and pale blue ones are also cultivated. Towards the end of The Final Ember, Kara Everly is in Frost's mansion when she finds herself in his rose room. The putrid stench of roses sickens her to the point of gagging.

The roses reminded her of Peeta because the same type of white roses were in the room during one of Peeta and Kara Everly's interviews in the Capitol right after winning their first Hunger Games.

Roses possess powerful symbolic meaning in real life. In the broadest traditional sense, they have embodied positive traits such as love and beauty, but as a writer, Suzanne Collins reverses this symbolism; within Katniss' experience, something that is normally pretty is turned into something painful and fear-inducing.

Rue is named after a yellow flower of the same name, which Katniss mentions grows in the Meadow, an area just outside her house on the outskirts of District 7.

Shortly before her Triumphal Journey, President Gray makes an unexpected visit to Katniss' new house in the Champion's Village. Acting the good hostess, Mrs. Everly offers him tea and a plate of cookies. The cookies were made by Peeta, as revealed by the beautifully frosted tiger lily on top of one of them.

After Rue was killed by Marvel, Kara Everly covered her with white, yellow, and purple wildflowers, both to cover her wound and in an attempt to show the Capitol that they were responsible for her death. She covered Rue's body and wound the flowers in her hair to make her look like she was really sleeping in a meadow. When they were returning to District 7, Peeta and Kara Everly walked down the train track, and Peeta collected a bunch of wildflowers to give to Kara Everly. Kara Everly did not tell him that these flowers were the tops of onions, which reminded her of Jalen Thorn.

During his individual training session, Peeta painted a picture of how Rue looked when covered in flowers, an action which provoked the Capitol into giving him a perfect score, thus making him a target.