Gale Hawthorne is a fictional character. He is a main character in a trilogy of novels. He is the best friend and hunting partner of another main character. He is fiercely devoted to his family and to a rebel cause. He is in love with his friend and is forced to watch as she volunteers for a deadly competition and fakes a romance with another participant to survive. After the competition, he becomes a threat to the ruling power through his relationship with her and is used to gain leverage over her. He escapes the bombing of his home district and leads survivors to safety, where they are rescued. He then becomes a soldier for the rebellion and fights at his friend's side for the remainder of a war.

He is the oldest child in his family with three younger siblings. After his father's death, he struggled to provide for his family. To help feed them, he hunted illegally in the forest adjacent to his district. He met his friend after they both lost their fathers. They crossed paths while hunting and slowly became close friends.

At a selection for the competition, his friend volunteers to take her sister's place. He advises her to make a bow if there is not one available and promises to protect and provide for her family in her absence. With his friend gone, he takes over the duties to support her family. He hunts for their meals and gathers supplies. He watches the competition and suffers to see her in danger. When asked about his friend, he was presented as her cousin to protect the narrative of her fake romance.

He later begins working in coal mines, a dangerous and disheartening job. He spends his days off hunting with his friend. Their relationship is complicated by her on-screen romance. He spontaneously kisses his friend, an act discovered by the ruling leader, who threatens his life if she does not convincingly pretend to love the other participant. He is later arrested for poaching and whipped. After this, his friend vows to stay and rebel with him.

When his friend is chosen as a participant again, he is devastated. He helps her and others train by teaching them about snares and trapping. After the participants are broken out of the arena, the ruling power bombs his district. He manages to rescue about 900 people and leads them into the woods, feeding them for days before they are rescued.

He lives in the rebel district and gains respect after saving the citizens. He accompanies his friend to the remains of their home district to protect her. He comforts her and reassures her. He is present when she agrees to become the symbol of the rebellion. They go hunting like they used to. He visits a weapons room and chooses a large military bow and arrow.

He goes along to shoot propaganda for the rebellion. They travel to a district hospital to film, and the ruling power attacks. He battles the enemy. Later, he goes to his old home to shoot another propaganda piece, where he retells the night of the bombing. His friend kisses him after seeing him in pain.

After another interview with the other participant, the entire district retreats to safe bunkers during a bombing. He goes back for his friend's belongings and finds her sister and a cat. They arrive at the bunker just before the doors close. After his friend breaks down during a propaganda shoot, he is the first to volunteer for an extremely dangerous mission to rescue captured individuals from the ruling power's capital. He safely returns and receives medical attention. Despite being confined to bed, he slips into his friend's room at night. After being released, he spends time designing weapons to use against the ruling power, but his friend becomes uncomfortable with the brutality involved.

He travels to another district to assist rebels already there. His relationship with his friend grows deeper as the two spend the night comforting each other. He and others go to a mountain fortress to think of a plan to attack and take control of the district. He conceives a plan that involves blowing up the inside, which upsets his friend because it would kill innocent people. After arguments, they decide to bomb the fortress but leave an escape route open so people inside can flee.

He visits his friend in the hospital when she awakens and they argue about what has happened. He informs her of the district siding with the rebels. Later, he and his friend meet with others at lunch. When the other participant arrives, he tells him he has changed. He takes his friend aside and tells her the other participant isn't seeing her for who she truly is.

He is part of a camera-ready sharpshooter unit that includes his friend and the other participant. He offers to kill the other participant if necessary and tells his friend he will follow her if she attempts to leave the group. However, he helps the other participant understand what happened in their home district. When their squad leader is injured, he helps clear a path and, after his friend outlines her mission to assassinate the ruling leader, urges the group to move on. They witness a broadcast that shows footage of the squad members' supposed deaths.

He tries to calm the other participant down and promises that he will kill him if it came down to it. The squad travels underground in tunnels and later are attacked by mutant creatures. He and the squad are able to make it out of the tunnel but lose several members. He himself receives a neck wound that his friend stitches up once they arrive at a safe location. In the night, he and the other participant discuss their relationship with their mutual friend.

When the squad splits up, he gives the other participant a suicide pill and follows his friend. The two of them attempt to disguise themselves among refugees. They obtain guns and head to the ruling leader's mansion. After almost dying from a trap, he is taken away by guards. As he is being taken away, he mouths at his friend to shoot him. She finds herself unable to do it, just as he is unable to kill her after the assassination of the rebel leader. Afterwards, his friend's sister is killed in a method akin to one he devised. He visits her before the ruling leader's execution and gives her a sheath with one arrow. She asks if it was his bomb that killed her sister. He isn't sure and tells her to shoot straight before he leaves. While she can never be sure, she realizes she will never be able to look at him the same way again, and lets him walk away without a word.

He later moves to another district, where he secures a job working for the new government and is occasionally seen on television. His friend finds herself relieved by this instead of feeling any longing or anger, as she herself believes that he will forget her.

He and his friend could easily pass as siblings. He is the person who knows his friend best. Their relationship grew from two slightly wary partners to more than best friends. He proved this when he appeared extremely jealous regarding her pretend romance and kissed her unexpectedly. When she later proposed that they run away together, he told her that he loves her, but she only replied that she knew, and he was furious when she intended to include others in their plans. While he is clearly in love with her, she remains conflicted by her feelings for both him and the other participant, as well as her own sense of unyielding independence.

At one point, she notes that he would never keep secrets from her. However, this implicit trust is challenged as he withholds information and opinions from her due to concern for her mental well-being, though she feels betrayed. He himself continues to suffer from her relationship with the other participant on-camera and apparent ambiguity off-camera. Regardless, she continues to be very possessive over his loyalties and requires his support.

Their relationship continues to become more romantic but also more complex. The relative simplicity of hunting is replaced with war. A chasm seems to grow between them as their ideals and morals clash. His 'win at all costs' mentality is put into practice. However, she is still clinging to the hope of winning the war with limited casualties and some sense of morality. In the end, it is his conviction in the necessity of sacrifice pitted against her moral incoherence that truly severs any relationship they had or could ever have. Her sister is killed by a firebomb that may have been designed by him. Even though the order to use the bombs was given by another leader, she cannot bring herself to forgive him for his creation and his role, and effectively shuts him out of her life.

She returns to her home district, whereas he lives in another district. She concludes that she needs the other participant, not him, to survive, because in the end, she and he are simply too alike. They are both full of fire, motivated largely by anger and vengefulness, and she cannot maintain a sense of peace and self-worth as long as she is too exposed to that truth.

He is neither truly friends nor enemies with the other participant though he has felt jealous of him due to the show that he and his friend put on for the cameras. He knew his friend had feelings for him and fully accepted that he would allow her to be with him if it meant her happiness. When he was being whipped, the other participant tried to help him and protect his friend. Later, when he helped his friend and the other participant train, he confessed that the other participant was not easy to hate. In the arena the other participant gave his friend a locket with a picture of him actually smiling; the other participant wanted her to be with him so she could be happy.

He volunteered first to be on the squad to break into the capital and retrieve the other participant from prison. After the other participant is rescued and his friend leaves because she can no longer be around him, he tells her that he's watched the other participant. He tells her that he knows that if the other participant never recovered, his friend would always feel wrong being with him because of her feelings for the other participant.

Later, while they hide, his friend wakes to a hushed conversation between him and the other participant about her. While the other participant tells him that his friend loves him, he disagrees and implies that the way that his friend kissed the other participant told him that she loved the other participant, instead. When he wishes that he had volunteered in place of the other participant, the other participant reminds him that he couldn't, that his friend needed him to take care of her family. When the other participant wonders how his friend would choose between them, he tells him that his friend would choose the person she could not survive without. His friend is offended and annoyed by this comment and suppresses her feelings for both of them in response, but she later realized he was partially right. After her sister's death, he leaves voluntarily because neither of them can avoid the matter of her death having been possibly caused by his invention, with her letting him go without a word. She subsequently grows back together with the other participant.

He and his friend's sister seemed to have a good relationship. He carried her away after her sister volunteered, and was shown to be comforting her mother and her. He promised her sister that he would feed her family when she was in the arena, and he showed remorse at her death.

He spent a lot of time working on weapons. It is assumed they got along well as they shared similar sanguine views on fighting and the war. It is strongly believed, though not confirmed, that they helped design the bomb that was used to kill children and his friend's sister.

He was not yet working in the coal mines initially, and was mainly supporting his family through extra rations and the money and meat he made from poaching illegally. He later worked in the coal mines. This gave a little more money, but left him less time to hunt. He still made time to hunt on Sundays with his friend. His poaching was stopped after he and his friend got into a heated argument. He was caught with a fresh turkey. He was forced to admit his guilt and was then whipped horribly. The other participant was with his friend when the two witnessed the whipping. The other participant had told his friend to leave, knowing full well that she would try to stop it but even with his warning, she rushed to his aid, getting lashed herself in the process. The other participant and another person had to step in. The whipping was soon brought to an end and he was rushed for medical treatment. His friend was by his side during the treatment and kissed him, which brought him back to consciousness. His friend then decides that he is the one she will love. Both had to stop their treks into the woods when the new peacekeeper decides to run constant electricity through the fence.

He works particularly closely with a weapons designer, designing weaponry, and later goes in as a soldier on the ground to assassinate the ruling leader. He eventually moves to another district, where he continues working for the military.

He enjoys a good laugh when he is with his best friend. He can be easy to anger, and often it is his friend who keeps it under control. He hated the ruling power more than most people. He frequently complained about the unjust political situation and the tyranny, in contrast to his friend, who was taught to hold her tongue. He mentions several times that he feels that a rebellion would be better than just doing what the ruling power wanted.

Unlike his friend, he believed in the idea of victory at any cost. He clashed with her over the way the rebellion should be fought. Where she wanted to save as many lives as possible at the risk of defeat, he wanted them to sacrifice a few lives so that they can insure victory. His friend tries to think in short-term, while he thinks in long-term, about how best to preserve life. This ruthlessness, combined with his hatred causes him to become a leading figure in the rebellion and to come up with new combat tactics. Unfortunately, it is also this personality that eventually costs him his relationship with his friend.

He often thinks in black and white terms, meaning something is either wrong or right and rarely does he see a grey area. He is angered that his friend worries for her captive prep team as they are from the ruling power, and so are the 'enemy' even though they are relatively innocent.

He also had a very idealistic personality. When he believed in something that was being challenged he wouldn't hesitate to fight for it. It is later said by his friend that his fire, his passion, and personality, was very similar to her own; however, hers was always more controlled. He often accompanied his friend when she did appearances as the rebellion's symbol, fighting when they came under attack. He also is the first to volunteer for the mission to save the other participant.

He is an expert at snares and strategy. He has known about snares since the first time he went into the woods. He has been able to catch many animals in his snares, which has been helpful for him and his family. He taught his friend about basic snares, which came in handy during the competition. Later, he is able to transfer his skill in snares into a skill in designing military weapons and tactics.

He is also able to use a bow and arrow, though he is not as accurate or fast as his friend. He is able to shoot from a certain distance and it takes him a little longer to shoot, but he is proficient enough to hunt and defend himself.

During the rebellion, he uses a lethal bow, loaded with a variety of gadgets and equipped with three different types of arrows: razor sharp, incendiary, and explosive.

He single-handedly supports his three younger siblings and his mother. His father died in a mine accident. He originally supported his family by illegally hunting and applying for extra rations. When he becomes too old for the competition, he works in the same mines as his father used to. Even though his friend wants to help him, he refuses every coin she offers. He does allow his friend to bring in game from hunts that he can no longer join, but expresses antagonism towards this arrangement as well. His friend and her family are just like family to him, as they look out for each other and share many things in common. He saves his friend's mother and sister and about eight hundred other citizens when the ruling power bombs their home.

He has black hair, olive skin, and grey eyes. He was over six feet tall by a young age. Due to their common heritage, he and his friend appear so alike that people believe them to be cousins. His eyebrows are heavy and dark, and he has stubble on his chin. His lips are soft and full but slightly chapped.

Muscular and good-looking, his friend herself says that he would have no trouble finding a wife. Another character calls him gorgeous and another says that he is one of very few people with camera-ready faces. His hands are scarred, but are strong and precise. In the winter, he smells of leather, apples, and smoke. He is often seen carrying a militarized bow.