Gloss was the male District 2 victor of the 63rd The Fire Games. He also participated as a Career Tribute in the 75th The Fire Games, also known as the third 25-Year Hunger Games.

He participated in and won the 63rd The Fire Games, the year before his sister won the 64th The Fire Games. He volunteered as tribute, as was common in District 2. Because of his Career Tribute status and good looks, he probably had a lot of sponsors and killed a considerable amount of tributes.

He was reaped from the pool of existing victors from District 2 to participate in the 75th The Fire Games alongside his sister.

He was present during training. He stuck with his sister, and also mingled with the other stronger Elite Tributes. He showed exceptional skill with throwing knives. He got a very high training score.

He was also present during the interviews, where he thanked the people for showing kindness to him and his sister. He called the people his beloved family, and claimed that no one could love him better. He and his sister were among the victors who were trying to show how betrayed they all felt through their interviews. He joined hands with the other tributes as a sign of strength.

He was presumably a good swimmer, since he was among the first people to make it to the Golden Horn. In the arena, he wasn't particularly swift, as he was shot in the calf when he plunged into the waves trying to escape arrows. This attack was not fatal; he managed to ignore the pain, and made it to the Golden Horn with his allies.

He was one of the members in the Career pack. Soon after others made their way out of the Golden Horn, he and the other Careers made their way back there to pick off more tributes. After the bloodbath, the Career pack retreated to the jungle.

The Career pack later made their way to the Golden Horn, ambushing the rebel alliance. He slit the throat of another tribute while she was singing alone at the waterside, earning him an arrow. Shortly afterwards, his body was thrown into the water when the Golden Horn spun.

Since he was a Career tribute, he most likely killed many tributes in his original Games and during the third 25-Year Hunger Games.

His sister was the only person mentioned in his family, both sharing a close relationship. They won consecutive Games, and were presumably highly honored by their district, as Career Districts honor their victors.

He and his sister were both described as being classically beautiful. He had blond hair like his sister. Considering that both were Elite Tributes, they were physically stronger than most of the other victors, being relatively young.