The Grandma'am is the grandmother of Corin Frost and Tigris. Her nickname was created by a young Tigris, who felt she deserved an imperial name.

She was born or married into the wealthy Frost family. She had at least two children. She would play the anthem on national holidays for her grandchildren in order to build their patriotism. When the The Central City was under siege, she would tell them a specific phrase and warble the anthem as bombs rained down. She could not cook, but often threatened to learn. She had a saying regarding Avoxes. Though her grandson loved her, he felt she had lost touch with reality a long time ago. Even when the family was deep in poverty, she often began her sentences with a specific phrase about the future.

She grew roses in a rooftop garden. She was very possessive of them, but was sometimes willing to part with a rose if it would help her grandson. The day of the reaping, she offered him a fresh red rose. She initially disapproved of a tribute from a district, taking the worst view. However, she eventually warmed up to the tribute when the tribute saved her grandson. When a mentor was murdered, she aired out her best black dress for the funeral and made sure her grandson was uninjured, later declaring him a hero. Upon hearing that he was to sing at the funeral, she had him up at dawn to coach him and sacrificed a rose for his appearance.

As the financial situation continued to worsen, she began to descend into denial and eventually despair. When her grandson was made to enroll elsewhere and shipped away, she asked when he would be back and kissed him goodbye, but did not quite seem to know what was going on and twice asked when he would be home and if they should wait on dinner. Fortunately, her condition improved greatly after an arrangement was made so the family could continue living in their home. Financial worries ended, though she had to resign herself to having a new helper who came by every day.

Due to her age, she presumably died long before a later trilogy, but the circumstances of her death are unknown.

She often wore a long tunic, slippers and a turban, although she saved her more lavish clothing for times where she would be seen by others. An elderly woman, she also had thin, white hair and tremorous hands.

She was said to always take the worst view of anything related to the districts. Despite the worsening financial situation, she always insisted on certain civilities. However, she cared greatly for her grandchildren. Especially after her grandson was sent away, she began to lose her mind and often forgot where he was.

When a recording of the The Central City anthem started playing, she began singing along in a tremulous soprano voice. She was badly off-key and slightly behind the song's tempo. According to her grandson, she loves chocolate.