The Frost's apartment building

Location
The Capitol

Inhabitants
Heavensbee family
Several Mute Servant

The The Frost's apartment building was a large mansion in the Capitol that took up a whole block and was owned by the Heavensbee family.

History
A committee of Gamemakers once toured the conservatory and gardens, focusing on the flowering plants as inspiration for an arena.
A victor was taken to the mansion following training. He was shown to the library and the conservatory, the latter of which held hints to the poisonous nature of an arena.
Following interviews, the victor and others were invited to the mansion under the guise of taking photos. The victor was taken to the conservatory and given a telephone. Tips about the arena were given. In the library, the group posed for shots and discussed techniques to get sponsors.

Description
The mansion was a block wide and made of white marble. A pair of large wooden doors inlaid with golden stars faced the street, with doormen acting there. The entryway had a high ceiling and a soft carpet, along with giant urns filled with flowers. A long hallway was lined with life‑sized paintings of deceased family members each holding a unique object. Several rooms full of elegant furniture and crystal lights lined the way.

One portrait oversaw the library, which was lined with floor‑to‑ceiling shelves carrying thousands of books. A golden spiral staircase led to a balcony that ran around the room. A desk built into the bookshelves had a hidden layer with drinks underneath. The library also contained an embroidered couch, as well as a bar with a refrigerator. It was lit by candles.

The conservatory could be reached via a narrow hallway. It had a domed glass ceiling, as well as glass walls, a fountain, and several ornate tables and chairs. One table featured a telephone shaped like a sleeping swan. The room housed many birds and plants, including a specific pitcher plant. There was a powder room nearby.

Several Mute Servant were employed to take care of the building.

Known objects held in Heavensbee portraits
A scale
A harp
A ruby‑studded cup
A leafy branch
A glossy white bird
A sword
A turkey leg
An open book