A hovercraft is a type of aircraft used in Aurelia, mainly by the The Central City, but is later also used by members of the rebellion. They serve a variety of roles from supporting the Hunger Trials to transportation and combat.

Prior to the beginning of the Hunger Trials, a hovercraft is used to transport each individual tribute and their stylist. Hovercraft windows are closed to prevent tributes from obtaining an aerial view of the arena. Once the Games get underway, a hovercraft carrying a giant screen displays the nightly recaps. As soon as a tribute's death is confirmed, their body is recovered by hovercraft along with any weapons. They also drop parachutes with sponsor gifts. Since the gifts can appear very quickly, this suggests that hovercrafts are constantly shadowing the tributes throughout the Games. Once a victor is declared, they are picked up by a hovercraft. This hovercraft is equipped with an operating room and carries a medical team.

A hovercraft may be equipped with a large claw for lifting or grabbing, harpoons attached to cables, and nets. They have also been seen catching people by sucking them upwards using some kind of force field. This same force field is used to hold someone in place when they are about to board the hovercraft via its ladder. This is also used to keep tributes immobilized when a locator is injected. Inside of the hovercrafts used for transporting tributes, there is food and drink.
Hovercrafts are equipped with some form of cloaking ability, since they are often described as "materializing". They are also fairly quiet, not making a sound, which allows them to appear without warning. The designs of the hovercraft can vary, with some having a sleeker and stealthier look.

Hovercrafts fulfill many combat functions. They are usually piloted and controlled to keep the districts in line or to catch runaways. They have also been used as transports and as bombers. During the first rebellion, some hovercrafts were captured and used as the nucleus for a fleet, constructing new hovercrafts and upgrading the older models. The fleet was later deployed during a subsequent rebellion. Hovercrafts were used to suppress rebels by bombing their strongholds.

Despite using trains as their main form of inter-district transport, hovercraft are also used to travel long distances. They are also used to ferry cargo and supplies.