The nation is known to have an abjectly poor record on human rights. Basic civil liberties and political freedoms are virtually non-existent throughout the nation, and the government, for most of its history, was known to be a totalitarian dictatorship, a police state in which the central government wielded absolute, unchecked power over its districts, all of which are subservient to its rule and where citizens are subject to totalitarian rule, with nearly every aspect of their lives governed.
Following the victory of the rebellion and the creation of a constitutional republic, the situation regarding human rights has substantially improved, with citizens of the districts gaining newfound political freedoms, including the right to vote for their representatives through free elections. The exact structure of the Republic, however, is not fully revealed, although it is clear that the president remains the chief executive of the government and it is implied that a legislative body is created, on top of a judiciary.

For most of its history, the nation was known to have a horrific record on human rights, given its constant surveillance over its citizens, the deprivation of the most basic civil liberties, as well as the near non-existence of political freedom. The regime was a totalitarian dictatorship and a police state, which employed massive surveillance over its populace as well as the use of a heavily militarized police force to enforce its control. Basic civil liberties were routinely violated, and citizens had little recourse for such violations.

Prior to the victory of the rebellion, elections were virtually unheard of, although it is not known if they took place in the capital. The citizens of the districts were known to be completely deprived of their political rights and freedoms, and their local authorities were appointed by the capital rather than chosen through popular elections. This ensured that they had no recourse against the brutal oppression and enslavement imposed upon them by the regime. It is unknown how the president, the chief executive of the central government, is given power.

The capital was known to prohibit any form of expression of opposition or defiance to its rule. Children from the districts were taught from a young age to not voice their opinions on political matters, especially dissenting opinions. Expressing any form of criticism to the rule was seen as treasonous, seditious, or rebellious, and offenders who were caught faced heavy punishments, including torture and the death penalty.
Such a rule applied not only to the districts, but also to the capital as well. Despite the preferential treatment and wealth, capital citizens are policed just as heavily as the districts, and those who openly expressed opposition to the ruling government faced dire consequences.

Religion is noted to be largely absent, with no mention of organized religion. While some citizens might have held to such beliefs, the overwhelming majority are noted to be atheists or agnostics, showing no belief whatever in a higher power or in the afterlife.
Religion was presumably forbidden, similar to all totalitarian states. None of the presidents commanded any sort of cult of personality nor were treated as gods by the general populace, and the prevailing belief in the nation was atheism.

Except for official matters such as the reaping, watching the annual event, and public punishments, public gatherings were largely prohibited throughout the districts and the capital. The capital was known to use force to suppress peaceful protests. Public gatherings were known to be extremely rare in the districts, as the citizens spent most of their time working in whatever industry they were assigned to.

No independent media exists, as the only approved media outlets are state-run media, all of which show propaganda and serve to instill a sense of fear amongst the districts citizens and discourage rebellion or resistance.
The use of state media serves a central role in the regime maintaining its grip on power through intimidation and indoctrination, as citizens never learn the exact truth but only what the capital wants them to hear.

It was prohibited for district citizens to leave their district or to travel to other districts or the capital. Such a right was reserved for the political elites, as well as for participants and their mentors during the event and related tours. The police force could be deployed anywhere in the nation for their duties.
The capital citizens were also prohibited from traveling into the districts.

Weapon ownership is largely prohibited, with the exception of utilitarian weapons such as knives, or tools necessary for certain industries.
The penalty for illegal weapons possession was death.
Despite such a strict prohibition, several citizens of the districts are known to be illegally hoarding weapons.

Citizens who were accused of crimes were often immediately captured and publicly executed for their acts, with no evidence that they were tried by jury. Extrajudicial executions at the hands of security forces are extremely common for a variety of crimes.

The capital was known to use torture on political dissidents and rebels.
Capital punishment was routinely employed for a variety of offenses, and executions were carried out through a variety of means. There was a long list of crimes punishable by death, including dissent, armed rebellion, criticism of government, unauthorized travel between the districts, weapon ownership, and theft.
Much of the time, executions took place in the form of extrajudicial killings by the police force. The capital was not known to set any minimum age nor exemptions from the death penalty, as all those who violated its laws were executed.

Schools within the districts are extremely limited in curriculum, and serve as mostly indoctrination centers. Rather than educate students, they mostly serve to propagate propaganda to the young, where they are only taught the official narrative of events.
In the capital, there is known to be institutions of higher education. While capital citizens receive a higher level of education than the districts, they are still known to be fed state propaganda, and educators are required to instill loyalty to the regime in the minds of students.