Pre-Games
Persona
In the week leading up to the Games themselves, tributes had to curate their public persona, typically in order to appeal to sponsors. The nature of their act would be curated or dictated by their mentor and stylist, then showcased in the Tribute Parade, training sessions, and interviews. Victors would also be expected to maintain these personas long after their Games, for as long as they remained in the public eye.
Some tributes were known for their intelligence.
Other tributes set out to intimidate.
Some were presented as sex symbols.
Training scores
Most tributes aimed to impress the Gamemakers and sponsors with high training scores. However, a high score could also make a tribute a target, marking them as the one to beat. In some cases, tributes would intentionally keep their skills hidden and get low scores on purpose.

Coliseum strategies
Coalitions
Sometimes, tributes would form temporary truces in order to share resources, fight together, and/or protect one another inside the arena. District Ally s often banded together in this way, but cross-district alliances were not unheard of.
Career alliance
One of the most common kinds of alliance was the Career alliance, also known as a Career pack. Tributes from certain districts commonly trained to compete in the Games, and they traditionally joined forces to wipe out the rest of the field before turning on one another. It was also typical for them to claim and divide up the supplies from the Cornucopia.
Newcomers
During one The Fire Games, the non-Career districts formed their own alliance known as the Newcomers. However, this alliance appeared to not be continued in later games.
Tracking
It was common for tributes to track one another down, usually with the goal of attacking them, as the Careers so often did. However, tributes would sometimes go looking to form an alliance.

Avoidance
Many tributes tried to bide their time in the arena by avoiding other tributes altogether. However, the Gamemakers could counter this by using traps, feasts, or muttations to drive them together and force a fight to occur.
Hiding
Even if a tribute couldn't avoid their competition, they could find places to hide and stay unseen. However, this left tributes vulnerable in the event that they were discovered and cornered.
Stealth
Tributes used Stealth to hide themselves in plain sight. Tributes also camouflaged brightly-colored items on their person to prevent themselves from being spotted.
Stealth
Stealthy tributes could move quietly throughout the arena without drawing attention to themselves. However, stealth could also be used to launch an offensive.

Combat
A tribute's approach to combat depended on the weapons at their disposal, as well as their skills and physical condition.
Hand-to-hand combat
In the early years of the Games, tributes from certain districts tended to last longer because they were better-fed. This gave them a size and strength advantage that would serve them well in the arena. Children in some districts also worked in their districts' industries from young ages, which taught them how to use certain tools as weapons. Tributes from another district also shared the advantage of existing weapons skills, having learned to use axes for work.
Once some districts started training their tributes and became Career districts, most known Careers excelled in this area of combat. Career Tributes also maintained their size and strength advantage over those from more impoverished districts. However, an unarmed tribute could still gain the upper hand in a close-quarters fight against a Career with the use of an improvised weapon.
Long-range combat
Tributes who were at a disadvantage in terms of size and physical strength could turn to long-range combat. They could also ensnare an opponent from a distance, literally or figuratively, with the use of nets, snares, or clever tricks.
Some districts had a particular knack for inventive long-range strategies. Tributes from one district were known for using electrical traps, drones, and reactivated land mines. Tributes from another district were known for weaponizing poison and using the arena's force field against opponents.
Flight
When faced with a fight they knew they couldn't win, a tribute could choose to run away.

Resource management
Hunting and foraging
Tributes with some skill and knowledge of hunting, foraging, trapping, or fishing could feed themselves with the arena's plant and animal life. However, this strategy proved fatal during one The Fire Games because everything in the arena was poisonous.
Salvaging
Tributes sometimes took items that other tributes had discarded, or more frequently, they claimed dead tributes' possessions as spoils of war. In one The Fire Games, they often took each other's sponsor gifts; however, this left them susceptible to decoy tactics where the items left behind could actually be harmful.
Sponsors
Tributes could gain access to food and drink, medicine, and weapons by endearing themselves to sponsors during the Games. These people paid for tributes to receive gifts inside the arena, sent by their respective mentors.
Stealing
Tributes have also been known to steal from each other. One tribute maneuvered around a field of land mines to steal from the Careers, taking very little so the items' absence would not be noticed.