Interviews with each of the tributes were hosted the night before each Hunger Trials began. The tributes dressed up so as to create an impression. They were asked about their life back home, their time so far, their training score, and the reaping. The interviews occurred in order of districts, with the female preceding the male tribute. Each tribute was allotted three minutes for their interview. The main purpose of the interviews was to show the rest a little about each tribute to help them choose their favorite. After the Games ended, another interview would be conducted with the victor that reviewed their time in the arena.

The interviews were introduced as a special event. It was held before a live audience and broadcast. At the time, the Games were not generally popular and these interviews were an attempt to change that, along with the introduction of the mentorship program, as well as sponsorships and betting on the tributes. It was hoped that by getting to know the tributes better, the audience would become more interested in their fates. The mentors also appeared alongside their tributes for these interviews, due to the newness of the mentorship program.

Before the interviews were even held, a number of tributes had already died. Thus, there were only a limited number of interviews and each tribute and mentor pair were given a maximum of ten minutes.

The highlight of the evening was a tribute who went last. The two appeared together. The tribute then sang a song composed herself. By the time she was done, one could hear a pin drop in the auditorium.

Following the Games, that tribute was apparently shipped directly back and not given another interview.

During these interviews, it was noted as being overwhelming due to the high number of tributes.
The interviews opened with a brief retrospective of the previous Games, describing one as having been a turning point. Following this recap, the interviews went in order as usual by district. One tribute bragged about size, strength and training score among other things. Another flexed muscles for the audience and bragged about being the biggest and the best. Following this, the remaining members attempted to play up their prowess with weapons and benefits to avoid being classified in a certain way.

The arrival of other tributes revealed a new alliance that had been made. Others attempted to highlight their skills and thus were ill-prepared for questioning regarding the new alliance. Other tributes attempted to play up their own strengths in order to counter the narrative, realizing that this would be the last look the audience would have. Following this, other districts continued to build up the narrative until finally the time came for the final interviews. Worn down by all of the talk, the host was ready for something different and egged on a tribute, getting laughs from the audience when she mocked the poor taste in clothing of the audience. Another tribute impressed by spouting off complicated betting odds and the amount of sponsor dollars it would take to send a particular gift. Another proved a sensation by wielding a snake. When, however, she was questioned directly, she simply hissed in response and then amused the audience. When asked what the new alliance would do, she replied with a statement resulting in gasps of disapproval from the audience, which caused her to only shout the statement repeatedly. Help was called for, only for the tribute to suddenly fall quiet and collapse.

When another tribute was interviewed, he decided to adopt a particular persona, playing up a low training score. He was asked about the increased number of competitors. He responded by making the audience laugh. He spoke of how he had already been attacked by one of the other tributes. He described himself as being proud of the training score, saying that he had guts, and that anyone could get a high score but that you had to be a special kind of trouble to get a low one. He wrapped the interview by alluding to brooding illegal alcohol and was declared to be a real character.

Each of the contestants were given an interview.

One tribute was described as very beautiful. It was noted that her mentor probably didn't have much trouble thinking of an angle of approach to make herself seem a good bet.
Another showed confidence and made jokes during the interview.
Another was arrogant and ready. She confirmed high skills with knives.
Another was noted as a monstrous, ruthless killing-machine. He said he was determined to win.
Another's interview was said to be nothing special.
Another was sly and elusive. She spoke very little but when she did it was noted that she was quiet. In one adaptation, it was shown that she talked fast and used many intelligent words.
Another was very quiet and shy.
Another was not very shy, saying the best strategy is speed, saying that if they can't be caught, they can't be killed. She was dressed in a gossamer gown complete with wings making the audience in awe.
Another was very large, and attempted to answer the questions with single yes or no answers. It was thought that if there was any money, it would be bet on this tribute.

One tribute was very nervous and couldn't think straight during the interview. Her stylist told her to be honest and pretend like the interview questions are coming from a familiar person to calm her down and throughout the interview, she reminded herself to be honest. She won over the audience by showing off her outfit and twirling around, making her look beautiful. She said that her favorite thing was a certain food and that she would be trying to win for a family member. She had a dress in which the bottom was fabricated and made her look like she was on fire when she twirled. When asked about an unusually high training score, she was vague on the details, saying only that what she did was a first.

Another tribute won over the audience with looks and sense of humor. He joked and asked the host if he smelled like roses. He makes a joke about the showers, and the host states that he is charming and has a wonderful sense of humor. He also revealed that he has had a crush on his female counterpart for a long time, which started a story about star crossed lovers.

Only some of the tributes have interview scenes in one adaptation. But some of the interviews were cut. Some did not have interview scenes, but were shown in a queue scene.
Some were completely omitted in the adaptation's interview and lineup scenes.

Both appear for the post-Games interview. One is told that they must act as though they are madly in love and that she would rather have died than to lose the other. Due to a defiant act, the leadership is not very happy with them. Their stylists, prep teams, escort and mentor are all introduced. One is dressed as an innocent young girl in a dress that resembled candlelight to draw attention away from rebellious actions. They show highlights and it is especially hard to re-live. When the crown is given, a venomous look is given and it is known that revenge will be had.

To wrap up a Triumphal Journey, there is an interview. During, he asks how the victor is doing. During one interview, a proposal is made. This was an idea and was the signal for a planned uprising.

Each victor reaped participated in an interview, a process not new to any of them. Most complained or showed sadness of the fact that they would have to participate in yet another games, while some, mainly the careers, boasted of their fame or showed the same bloodlust as before.

One makes a speech about how she could not stop crying when she thinks of how the residents must be suffering with the thought of the loss. In an adaptation, both siblings go up at the same time. During the interview, it is stated that both turned the event into a family affair. One speaks after the other does.
Another thanked for the kindness to him and his sister, said that the people were his family, and that he was not dying by choice. In an adaptation, both siblings go up at the same time. During the interview, it is stated that both turned the event into a family affair. One speaks before the other does, telling the audience that they are not going in by choice.
Another questioned the legality of the special event. In an adaptation, it is stated how much has been contributed over the years and it is not known what will be missed more. It is then said that since the event was written into law, it can be unwritten as well.
Another read a love note. According to an observer, almost all the women fainted, thinking that they were the subject. The note was indeed for a true love.
Another asked if it really is impossible to do something about the situation, seeing as when the twist was first written, it was not taken into account the bond that would inevitably form. In an adaptation, she instead expresses anger at being forced to fight again.
Another quietly pondered about how the people all think of the leader as being all-powerful and asked, if he is so powerful, why doesn't he just change it?
Another helped spark a rebellion by stating that the leader could change it at any moment if he had wanted to.
One unexpectedly put on a show to spark a rebellion. Her wedding dress surprisingly transformed into a symbolic bird at the end of the interview. This lead to the designer's death the next day. Prior to her interview, the dress was made fun of. In an adaptation, it was another who made fun of the dress. However, when she learns that the leader forced it to be worn, she says to make him pay.
Another had the same enjoyable back-and-forth as the year before. He talked of a secret marriage and revealed a pregnancy, both fake, but the latter being in order to get the audience's sympathy to keep their faith.

At the close of the interviews, two victors led the others in a spontaneous show of unity by holding hands. Some, mostly the career victors, are reluctant at first, but finally the crowd into a chaotic uproar. The chain of hands, though seen to some as a symbol of the victors' friendship and the first public show of unity since a historical period, was meant as a symbol of rebellion, saying that even the dreadfulness of the games couldn't sever the bond the victors had formed nor destroy the united strength they held. Nonetheless, this did not stop the tributes from battling to the death once the Games began the following day.