Interview outfits were outfits created by stylists and worn by tributes during their pre-Hunger Trials and post-Hunger Trials interviews.

Stylists had not yet been brought in for the The Hunger Trials: Ten, but there was talk of giving the tributes some grooming for the cameras. However, after the Capitol Coliseum bombing killed or injured many tributes and their Capitol mentors, it was decided that interviews would be done only on a voluntary basis. Participating tributes were not given any changes of clothes, so they all wore the same dirty items of clothing they'd had on since the reaping.

Among the tributes, the only exception was one female tribute. A stylist offered up an old dress of hers for the tribute to wear while she washed and ironed the tribute's rainbow dress. It was returned in time for the interviews. The stylist had starched its colorful ruffles, and she also sent a pot of blush for the tribute's lips and cheeks. The mentor put a hot pink rosebud in the tribute's hair, which was piled on top of her head.

The mentor wore his Academy uniform, and he had a rosebud on his lapel matching the one in the tribute's hair. The interviewer wore a high-collared blue suit with rhinestone accents, and he'd applied gel and a coppery powder to his hair. In one film adaptation, the interviewer wore a dark gray plaid suit with a silver tie during interviews.

The interviewer hosted the Games for more than 40 years. Every year, he wore the same pure white makeup, the same hairstyle, and the same ceremonial midnight blue suit, dotted with a thousand tiny electric bulbs that twinkled like stars. The only thing that changed annually was the color of his hair, and his eyelids and lips were done up to match.

One female tribute from a district wore a provocative sheer gold gown, and her blonde hair was flowing.
Another tribute from a different district wore a gossamer gown complete with wings.

In his first year as a stylist, a stylist dressed a female tribute in a dress studded with red, yellow, white, and blue gems in a flame design. These gems made the dress so heavy that the tribute estimated it was about forty pounds. Her prep team stenciled patterns on her arms, painted flames on her nails, and wove red strands into her hair, which was braided over her right shoulder. She was also given dark eye makeup, full red lips, and eyelashes that threw off light whenever she blinked, then her whole body was covered in glittery golden powder.
Another stylist dressed a male tribute in a black suit with flame accents in order to complement the female tribute.

The stylist was forced to accentuate the female tribute’s figure in order for her to not receive any sort of surgical altering to her body, so the dress contained padding. The sleeveless dress itself was girlish, with the hem gathered at her ribs to resemble a young girl's. The fabric emitted a subtle glow that resembled the flame of a candle, and ended at her knees.

The male tribute wore another outfit matching the female tribute's that consisted of a yellow shirt made of the same fabric as her dress. He wore long black pants with sturdy black boots.
In a film adaptation, the male tribute wore a teal suit with a navy button-up.

One female tribute wore her hair in flowing blonde curls, similar to another tribute the year prior.

A male tribute wore an elegant tuxedo with white gloves like a Capitol groom, and it was personally requested that a female tribute wear the wedding dress the Capitol audience had voted on. When the stylist helped her into the gown, she immediately noticed that it felt heavier than when she'd tried it on for a photoshoot. He explained this away as having made alterations for the lighting.
However, when the female tribute twirled during her interview, the white silk burned away to reveal an identical dress underneath made of black feathers. When she lifted her sleeves, she realized they had white patches like the wings of a mockingjay: a symbol of rebellion.