Juno Phipps was a female resident of the Capital City and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the The Hunger Trials: Ten. She was assigned the male tribute from District 9.

During the interviews before the The Hunger Trials: Ten began, Juno admitted that she'd been disappointed when she was assigned a small District 9 boy. However, he had won her over after describing multiple ways he could kill somebody with a sewing needle.

Unbeknownst to her, her assigned tribute was killed by a fellow mentor in self-defense after she had left for the night. The tribute finished in 13th place of the 24 tributes, which would have been considered successful as a mentor had 9 tributes not died in the days leading up to the start of the actual Games. This meant that she only successfully mentored her tribute past two others.

Since her tribute was not actually seen to be killed, she was shocked the next morning when his death was announced with a closeup of his body. No cause of death was given. She was visibly angry and suspected foul play, remarking that the scene looked suspicious. She then demanded to review the tape, but there was not one to be seen, as the events of his death happened at night and the cameras had been manipulated to obscure other actions in the arena. After being questioned what exactly counted as foul play during the Hunger Trials, she was directed back to her seat.

Juno Phipps was snooty in nature and expressed disappointment, both in getting a tiny boy as a tribute and in getting someone from District 9. She felt that being from a founding family of the Capital City, she was entitled to a better assignment. After her tribute's death, when demanding answers on the circumstances, she acted pompously by repetitively waving a leather binder with a family seal, thinking she was entitled to special treatment. This shows that she felt superior, even among other students with elite family names. She was labeled a sore loser after her poor behavior in exiting the competition.