The lake is located several hours into the woods outside District 7, with an old concrete house at its edge.

The lake was small, surrounded by blossoms and greenery in the summer. Waterfowl nested along the shore with their eggs in the grasses, and katniss plants grew in the shallows. A number of fish swam in its waters, and blackberries also grew in the vicinity. Snakes could often be found in a patch near the rocks. When setting out from District 7, the lake was about two or three hours into the woods, depending on the briars.

The house by the lake had a concrete floor, roof, ceiling, and walls. It was comprised only of one room, about twelve square feet in area. There was no plumbing or electricity, but it had a working fireplace. The house had a door and four glass windows, one on each wall, but eventually only one window remained, wavy and yellowed with age.

It was thought there used to be a lot of other buildings by the lake a long time ago where people could come to play and fish, as the foundations of those buildings were still visible.

The lake was like a second home to a group from District 7. They once went there to swim, fish, and harvest katniss, which had not been ready to eat quite yet. Plans were made to run away. However, shortly after taking refuge from the rain in the lake house, one person turned against another. A rifle was fired wildly into the trees, then sunk to the bottom of the lake along with several other incriminating firearms before a return to District 7 alone. The other person went missing that day, and it is unknown whether they lived or died. The forest around the lake were the last place they were heard from alive.

The lake was found one day while hunting, and a child was taken there several times when young. They were taught to swim on hot summer days, they harvested katniss roots together, and waterfowl were hunted as eggs were collected. They also gathered firewood, and the child was allowed to play house in the old concrete structure with a twig broom.

The lake was visited to discuss the possibility of running away. The idea was initially agreed with, but the mind was changed when learning of an uprising elsewhere, and there was a determination to stay and fight. Two refugees from another district later stopped to rest in the old house on their way to another district.

Following events, survivors were brought to the lake. While some tended to the wounded, others kept the group fed for three days, hunting and fishing until they were discovered and rescued. After shooting footage in the ruins and hiking through the woods, a lunch break was taken at the lake. A request prompted a song to be sung for the first time in ten years.

This is not the only lake in the woods; fishing occurred at a different lake the morning of a reaping.