The following is a list of characters in Hunger Trials series, including the original novels Hunger Trials, Catching Fire and The Final Ember, as well as the prequel title The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes and Sunrise on the Reaping.
Main characters
Hunger Trials
Kara Everly — The narrator, main protagonist, and District 7's female tribute, a strong-willed teenager trying to survive in the Hunger Trials. She lives with her little sister Primrose (nicknamed Prim) and her mother. After her father dies in a mine explosion, she hunts to provide for her family. She promises her sister she will try to win the games, and she is able to keep her promise by later winning the 74th Hunger Trials alongside Peter Morrow.
Peter Morrow — The male tribute for District 7, and the local baker's son. He is loyal and brave, and will do whatever it takes for Katniss to survive, because he has been in love with her since they were five years old. Katniss, however, has to act like she's in love with him in order to get sponsors which keeps both of them alive in the Games. Peter Morrow is described as being medium height, strongly built and has ashy blonde hair.
Galen — Katniss' stylist. A sly and witty man, Galen is clever with his fingers and even smarter in his mind. His incredible designs for Katniss help her gain popularity with the audience. He is the most "normal" person Katniss meets from the Capitol.
Rue — The tribute from District 12. Small and meek. It was not assumed that she would last long in the 74th Hunger Trials, but her knowledge of trees, plants, climbing and hiding keeps her alive. She can leap from tree to tree almost as if she had wings. She warns Katniss about the tracker jacker hive, and they later become allies. She is murdered by the boy tribute from District 2, Mara. Rue had dark eyes and dark skin.
Marcus — District 2 male tribute and the leader of the Career pack. He trained for the Games his entire life, and was described as a "ruthless killing machine". He was extremely strong and the tribute most likely to be crowned the victor. Marcus killed the Jace male and the District 6 male, along with many other unnamed tributes. He, Katniss, and Peeta were the last three tributes to face the wolf muttations who later killed Marcus.
Sly Vixen — Sly Vixen was described as having fox-like features, and because of that, Katniss nicknamed her "Sly Vixen". This red-head from District 12 is hard to catch. Though she doesn't have brute strength or knowledge of weapons, she could outsmart everyone in the arena. She made it to the final 4, then died by eating nightlock that was left out by Peeta.
Lyra — The female tribute from District 7. She was very skilled with throwing knives, as she was the one who killed the Jaxen Harlow male. She attempted to kill Katniss with one of her knives, but Katniss used her new Rucksack as a shield, so that the knife hit the Rucksack instead. Lyra placed 6th in the Games, she went to the feast having Marcus guarding her. She was killed during the feast by Jace after she tried to kill Katniss. She was the only tribute during the 74th Games that got close to killing Katniss, twice.
Jace — Male tribute from District 12. With the same brown skin and golden brown eyes as Rue, he was extremely resourceful and immensely powerful. His most notable act was that of sparing Katniss' life due to her alliance with Rue. He died shortly after, killed by Marcus.
Liora — The female tribute from District 2 who was described as beautiful, sexy, and tall, with blonde hair and emerald green eyes. She was part of the Career pack and was killed when a hive of angry tracker jackers was dropped on the camp by Katniss. The Jace female was also killed because of the tracker jackers.
Mara — The male tribute from District 2, who was a strong and ruthless Career. He killed Rue, the female tribute from District 12, by throwing a spear through her stomach. He was then killed by Katniss, shot in the throat by an arrow and drowned in his own blood. He was Katniss' first direct kill (but not her very first as she earlier killed Liora and a girl from District 12 with tracker jackers).
Mara Finch — The District 7 escort, who is a happy and bubbly person. She drew Primrose's (Katniss' sister) name during the reaping causing Katniss to volunteer as tribute. She wears many different colored wigs and helps Katniss and Peter Morrow get sponsors in the Games. She constantly bickers and argues with Haymitch. Very proper, she hates it when people do not have proper etiquette.
Ethan Carter — Haymitch is Katniss' and Peter Morrow's mentor. He is drunk at almost any given time, with a glass in one hand and a knife in the other. He drinks to forget the memories of the 50th Hunger Trials, which he was crowned victor of. He won during the second Quarter Quell, when double the tributes were required to participate in this deadly game. He promised he would sober up long enough for Katniss and Peter Morrow to play the Games and help them. He sends Katniss sponsor gifts throughout the Games to help her survive. Katniss believes that his gifts always seem to have good timing and there might be some kind of connection between them.
Gale Hawthorne — The best friend of Katniss. She and Gale met when she was only twelve and he was fourteen. Both of their fathers died in the same mining explosion. Gale hunts with Katniss in the forest usually everyday, but in Catching Fire he only hunts with her on Sundays (before the 24-hour electric fence is put up) because he started work in the mines. Gale calls Katniss "Catnip," a nickname that was created after the pair first met. Katniss barely whispered her name when he asked her what she was called and Gale thought she said Catnip. Even though Katniss told him her real name later, he still calls her that.
Alina Vale — The younger sister and only sibling of Kara Everly. She was originally chosen as the female tribute for the 74th Hunger Trials, but Kara Everly volunteered to take her place. She owns a goat named Lady, and a cat named Buttercup. Unlike her older sister, Prim has a heart full of compassion and she is a talented healer. She was named after the Evening Primrose, as mentioned in The Final Ember.
Mara Underwood — She gave Kara Everly the The Final Ember pin so she could wear it as her district token (although in the movie, Kara Everly receives the pin from Grace Mae). She was Kara Everly' friend and the mayor's daughter. In The Final Ember, Mara and her family died from the fire bombing that destroyed District 7.
Catching Fire
Kara Everly — Returns as the narrator and the main character for the second installment, facing new challenges. She is forced to show that she is in love with Peter Morrow, and her desperate action at the end of the first Games was an act of mindless love. Unfortunately, she supposedly fails President Gray's inspection and is forced to get married to Peter Morrow. But when she is forced to compete in the 75th Hunger Trials, Galen dresses her in her wedding dress for her interview, but because of his alterations, it burned and turned her into a human The Final Ember. Kara Everly battles with her devotion to Peter Morrow versus Gale, and remains undecided.
Peter Morrow — Kara Everly's 17 year old fellow tribute, who later becomes her fiancé. Peter Morrow volunteers to take Haymitch's place in the Quarter Quell, wanting to keep Kara Everly alive. During the Quell, Peter Morrow runs into a force field and his heart stops, but his ally Finnick Odair restarts it by using CPR. Peter Morrow is among those captured by the Capitol at the end.
Ethan Carter — Kara Everly and Peter Morrow's Mentor in the Hunger Trials. Has an addiction to alcohol, and gets drunk to escape the world around him. He was the only living victor in District 7 before Kara Everly and Peter Morrow. Ethan Carter is their mentor throughout Hunger Trials and Catching Fire. He is the one that sends the gifts from sponsors as well.
Mara Finch — Kara Everly and Peter Morrow's escort in the games. She is very strict, prim, and proper. She is noted for her odd clothes, wigs and her distinct capitol accent. She helps organize sponsor gifts alongside Haymitch to send to Kara Everly and Peter Morrow during the games. At the end of the 75th Hunger Trials, Mara Finch is arrested alongside Kara Everly and Peter Morrow's prep teams.
Gale Hawthorne — Kara Everly's best friend and hunting partner in District 7. He is nineteen years old, fierce, hates the Capitol, and wishes to start an uprising as the people of District 8 did. Kara Everly must pretend that they are cousins to keep him alive, or President Gray could order to have him killed.
President Gray — The President of Aurelia. He speaks to Kara Everly face-to-face for the first time at the beginning of Catching Fire. President Gray is described as having very puffy lips which was most likely from an appearance altering operation that is very popular in the Capitol. Kara Everly describes him as having a smell of blood and roses in his breath.
Finnick Odair — The male tribute from District 7. He won the 65th Hunger Trials by using a net he wove himself and a trident he received as a gift from sponsors; District 7's trade is fishing. Finnick is described as being one of the most stunning, sensuous people on the planet. He is known for his attractive sea green eyes and bronze hair. During the Quarter Quell, a jabberjay recording of his one true love, Alina Vale, screaming is used as psychological torture. Kara Everly was hesitant to make Finnick her ally, but he proved to be valuable when he helped Peter Morrow off his plate and then administered CPR after he hit the force field. Finnick was a key person in the rebellion, as revealed to Kara Everly in the hovercraft at the end of the book.
Mara — The female tribute from District 7. She is around 80 years old and volunteered to take the place of a young woman, Alina Vale, to spare her. Mara is one of the first people Kara Everly wants for an ally, along with Beetee and Mira. Kara Everly observed that she can make a fishing hook out of anything. Unfortunately, while the group are trying to escape poison fog, Mara gives herself up without a question so Finnick could carry a wounded Peter Morrow to safety.
Anna Thompson — The female tribute from District 12. She won an earlier Hunger Trials by pretending she was a weakling until there were only a handful of tributes left, then showing that she could kill viciously. Kara Everly remembers watching these Trials herself, so Anna Thompson is fairly young. Anna Thompson was captured by the Capitol at the end, along with Peter Morrow and Elara Everdeen.
Jace Hunter — The male tribute from District 12. He is very skilled with a wire, which planned to use to blow up the arena's forcefield, but Kara Everly shoots an arrow into it instead, and joins Kara Everly at the end on the way to Sector 13.
Mira — The female tribute from District 12. Mira often doesn't finish her sentences; Beetee often finishes them for her. Though very smart and able to figure out that the Quarter Quell arena acted like a clock, Mira is killed by the male tribute from District 2, Mira, when he slits her throat.
Elara Everdeen — The female tribute from District 7. She is famous for ripping a tribute's throat out with her teeth during Games that she won. After she won her first Games, she altered her teeth to be razor-sharp and plated them with gold. She is a threat in the arena and is later captured by the Capitol along with Peter Morrow and Anna Thompson.
Galen — Kara Everly's stylist, who risks his life to turn the wedding dress President Gray forced her to wear into a The Final Ember outfit. He is captured at the beginning of the Quarter Quell. It is believed that he was killed during interrogation.
The Final Ember
Kara Everly — The The Final Ember, the symbol for the rebels. She fought her way into the Capitol and ended the rebellion. She also killed President Selene Kade. She returned to District 7 after the war and eventually marries Peter Morrow. Together, they have two unnamed children, a girl and a boy.
Peter Morrow — Was in the arena with Kara Everly during the 74th and 75th Hunger Trials, but got captured by the Capitol at the end of the latter. He was hijacked by the Capitol, but he was later rescued by a team. He loved Kara Everly since they were five years old. In the epilogue, he married Kara Everly, and they have two children, one girl and one boy.
Alina Vale — Kara Everly's little sister, who helps keep Kara Everly sane when Peter Morrow wasn't there. Prim worked as a healer in Sector 13 and planned on becoming a doctor, but died during a bombing by Selene Kade's soldiers when a hovercraft dropped parachute bombs on a large group of Capitol children. When she rushed in with medics, she was killed by the second explosion. It was thought that the bomb that killed her could have been made by Gale.
Gale Hawthorne — Kara Everly's hunting partner and best friend. He loves Kara Everly, but they don't end up together because Kara Everly considers that the bombs that killed Prim were made by Gale. He ends up working successfully in the government of District 7. Kara Everly assumes he has plenty of girls to love there without her and he mentions that he has kissed many girls other than Kara Everly.
Mara Finch — The escort for Kara Everly and Peter Morrow during the 74th and 75th Hunger Trials. As a resident of the capitol, she dresses oddly and has a distinct capitol accent. She is very strict and proper. She is arrested at the end of the 75th Hunger Trials and is taken to prison. She is released when the districts win the rebellion against the capitol. Kara Everly is quite surprised at Mara Finch being a rebel. Mara Finch witnesses Kara Everly kill President Selene Kade and returns home to the Capitol afterwards.
Ethan Carter — A drunken former victor from District 7 who used to be a mentor for the Hunger Trials. He helped in the rebellion and then returned to District 7, where he remains an alcoholic even though he wasn't allowed to be one in Sector 13.
Elias Hawthorne — He was the Head Gamemaker for the 75th Hunger Trials, but was secretly working with the rebels to overthrow the Capitol.
Finnick Odair — Victor of the 65th Hunger Trials. Originally from District 7, he helped in the rebellion against the Capitol. After Alina Vale and Peter Morrow are captured by the Capitol, he and Kara Everly help keep each other sane by tying knots on a length of rope. He marries Alina Vale after she is rescued from the Capitol, but is sadly killed by rose-scented reptile mutts, in the transfer, during a mission to assassinate President Gray. Alina Vale has their unnamed son after he dies.
John Carter — A TV show host who interviews Kara Everly and Peter Morrow multiple times.
Alina Vale — Victor of the 70th Hunger Trials. She went mad when she witnessed her district partner get beheaded. She won her games when a flood killed all the other tributes. She was the best swimmer there, so she survived. She is Finnick Odair's love interest and later becomes his wife. She is widowed when he is killed by Snow's mutts during a mission, and later gives birth to their son.
Corin Snow — The cruel and twisted President of Aurelia, who died from either choking on his own blood or being trampled by the crowd. Kara Everly pointed out that no one cared, and it didn't matter.
Selene Kade — President of Sector 13. She was believed to have authorized the bombing of the Capitol's children, which killed Prim, Kara Everly' sister. Kara Everly assassinates her with an arrow during Snow's execution because she realizes Selene Kade will be a horrible dictator as well.
The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes
Corin Snow — One of the 24 mentors assigned by the "Academy" for the 10th Hunger Trials. His family was once one of power in the Capitol, but has since fallen on hard times. He assigned to mentor Mara Jansen, the female tribute from District 7. He becomes embroiled in the still ongoing conflict between the Capitol and rebels and must face matters of love, chaos, contract and control.
Marcus Highman — The dean of the "Academy" and credited for creating the Games. Doped up on morphling, he has a dark secret in his past and seems bear a grudge against Corin Snow.
Gaius Aurelius — The mentor for the District 7 male tribute. He is from District 7 himself and still sympathizes with those in the Districts. His father, Marcus Crane, is a powerful war profiteer who bought his family a new life in the Capitol, but struggles against his son's rebellious ways.
Clementine Dovey — The mentor for the District 12 male tribute. She was the daughter of the Capitol's energy secretary.
The Hunger Games: Dawn of the Reaping