Lena Carter was a female resident of The Central City and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the The Hunger Games: Ten. She was assigned the male tribute from District 2.

She was excited upon being assigned her tribute. She was the only one of the mentors who did not congratulate another mentor for his idea to visit his tribute upon arrival, instead saying that she thought he had cheated and should be dismissed as a mentor immediately. Footage later showed her flailing through a crowd at the zoo. It was thought ironic for her to behave this way, given that she had once called another student "self-absorbed" for not being able to decipher the deeper meaning of a poem in rhetoric class.

Her tribute was one of several killed in the bombing of the arena. Following this, she was very vocal, demanding that new tributes be brought in from the districts to replace those who had been killed. Barring this, she wanted to be given another tribute whose mentor was in the hospital. However, this never came to fruition, so her role in the The Hunger Games: Ten ended before the competition itself began.

After an ill-fated relationship, another mentor mused that he might one day marry someone that he disliked who wouldn't be able to sway his heart and manipulate him. He specifically mentioned Lena Carter, saying she would be "perfect". He imagined her being his first lady someday once he became president.

She was said to have a "pointed little face". In the film she has long blonde hair and blue eyes.

She had a shrill voice and was known to be prone to gloating. She constantly rivalled another student as a child, and was known to be rude and cruel toward him. She used to taunt him for his parentless state when he was younger. She was also a bad sport, as she made it clear that she thought he should be dismissed as a mentor following his entry in the zoo, was outraged at her tribute's death because it meant she would no longer have a chance of a prize. She also sneered at a female tribute, thinking that she didn't have a chance in the Games, and she insulted those who supported that tribute.