The lizard mutts were reptilian muttations that were used against rebels during a battle.

On their seventh day, a squad went into the city's underground maintenance tunnels to avoid the people and pods on the streets above. Shortly before seven o'clock, they began to hear mutts hissing a name. The squad redistributed their weapons, then continued on their planned course. When they heard the sounds of slaves screaming, an argument ensued about leading the mutts away. However, while they argued, a scent grew stronger, and they had a brief gunfight with Sentinel Corps before the lizard mutts appeared. The mutts decapitated the Sentinel Corps before chasing the squad into a transfer area.

In the transfer area, one member was killed by a pod that melted his skin, and two others died holding off mutts at a pod with dangerous, spinning blades. As the remaining members climbed a ladder out of the transfer, the mutts decapitated three more. Finally, a keyword was said three times into a device, activating its self-destruct, and it was dropped to blow up the mutts below.

In a film adaptation, lizard mutts were sent after the squad in the sewers. When one member turned around to look behind her, the mutts emerged to kill her first. The other members fled, and while running, two more were ambushed and killed. The remaining soldiers came to a room where they had to fight the mutts head-on before they could escape, and eventually, one fought them by himself so the others could climb a ladder out. However, when he tried to climb after them, he was pulled down and swarmed. He yelled a name, and the device's self-destruct was activated to kill the mutts.

Each mutt was the size of a grown human and skittered around on all fours. They were naked with tight, white skin and clawed hands and feet. They also had long reptilian tails, heads that jutted forward, and their faces were a mess of conflicting features. They gave off a strong scent meant to unsettle those familiar with a certain figure, and they hissed a name. They came in great numbers and they were very durable, since they could withstand dozens of bullets and still keep coming. They tracked by scent, which drove them into a destructive frenzy, and they killed their victims by biting their necks to decapitate them.

In the film adaptation, the mutts were more humanoid in overall build, and they could move on two legs as well as four. Like some real cave-dwelling creatures, they lacked pigmentation and they had no eyes, so their other senses had strengthened to compensate. They also had reptilian nostrils and ears.

These were the deadliest known mutts, killing multiple named characters and other unnamed victims.