Luna was a body double for a female tribute following her death. She ultimately participated and died in the 50th Hunger Trials.

She was taken to the Capitol as punishment, where she was tortured and trained to mimic the tribute after she died. She was starved, which resulted in the Capitol artificially plumping her face to avoid it showing.

She was unable to say anything of substance, solely repeating that she was the tribute. After being given a bowl of soup, she very quickly ate it with desperation. The other tributes did not want to refer to her by the original tribute's name, so they nicknamed her "Luna."

Over time, the others discovered that the Capitol had implanted two devices in her body; a device in her ear to tell her the right thing to do and say, and a pump in her chest to put drugs in her body if they needed to subdue her. They also realized that they had to be careful of what they said around her as the Capitol could hear them. Her interest in seeded bread also revealed her true district of origin. Her ear often hurt and bled, causing her to tug on it a lot.

To prevent the other tributes from figuring out she was a different person, the other tributes made out that the original tribute had been patched up but was no longer right in the head. She did not say much other than to introduce herself as the original tribute. During training, they persuaded the others that she had brain damage. She received a low score after her private session.

In preparation for her interview, she practiced. As she could only introduce herself by name and district, a mentor questioned what was wrong with her and told her to snap out of it. The mentor started shaking her which triggered her to begin screaming until she was taken out the room.

Before her interview, a stylist gave her a snake to wear around her shoulders which she happily accepted and developed a bond with. She brandished the snake toward the audience during her interview. At first, she was a sensation but when asked a question about the games, she growled a response. While causing a scene on stage, the Capitol subdued her by releasing drugs into her system via the pump in her chest.

Afterwards, the tributes had a photoshoot. She took pictures with her snake and was given a catchphrase. She lost her snake before returning.

In the hovercraft on the way to the arena, she sung a harvest song from her true district. As they were sharing the craft with the tributes from that district, they questioned how she knew the song. Another tribute sung another song to find out if she recognized it too, and when she did, asked for an explanation. An ally admitted that she was from their district. The tribute from her true district tried to ask her what her real name was so if there was a victor, they could tell her family back home. However, the device in her ear started hurting and her only response was shrieking.

During the initial bloodbath, an ally tried to shield her and was killed. She managed to get away and joined a group in the mountains. By the second day, she ran off after the Gamemakers told her to through her ear device. She made her way through the meadow and found an ally in the forest. She reached for an apple on a tree but the ally warned her they were poisonous and offered her a safe one with food from his pack instead.

To get her to go north with him, he told her they were going to find her snake. She kept trying to eat from poisonous bushes and trees on the way causing the ally to keep intervening. To create fire, the ally collected stones and had her hold them to keep her occupied. They worked their way through the stones until one ignited a fire and cooked food for dinner.

She died on the second day of the games. While walking north, she discovered a plant and excitedly buried her face in them to smell as they reminded her of home. However, like most things in the arena, they were poisoned. She began choking while the ally tried to console her, until blood poured out of her eyes, nose and mouth. She then started convulsing and recognizing she was in tremendous pain, the ally begged the Gamemakers to pump a lethal dose of drugs into her using the pump they implanted to put her out of her misery. They did not oblige so the ally pulled the device and ended her life himself. He then whispered to the Gamemakers into the device in her ear that they did this to her and called them murderers.

When the hovercraft arrived to collect her body, the ally refused to hand her over without a fight. To force him, the Gamemakers sent deadly muttations after him. When they stung him, he dropped her in a jolt of pain and her body was retrieved. It is unknown what was done with her body.

She looks exactly like the original tribute, same size, height, heart shaped face, big gray eyes and long dark hair in braids. The Capitol likely altered parts of her appearance so she'd be a passable body double. However, her body was bony and her face had been noticeably plumped to make it look fuller.