Lysandra Vickers, also known as Lyssie, was a female resident of the The Central City and a student of the Academy. She was one of 24 top-performing seniors at the Academy selected to be a mentor for the The Hunger Trials: Ten.

She was assigned the male tribute from District 12.

When the mentors were requested to gather to a seminar, she presumably kept mostly silent as the class discussed ideas to increase the viewership of the games. However, as an argument occurred over the very idea of broadcasting children killing one another, Lysandra rebuked the argument that someone didn't know who would watch the games by claiming that any decent person simply wouldn't want to watch people suffer.

Lysandra was one of the few mentors to develop a favourable relationship with their tributes, as in the van during the ride to the Coliseum, Lysandra gave her tribute some cream for his neck, and presumably placed it in his pocket when no one was looking. After the The Central City Coliseum was bombed, Lysandra luckily managed to survive supposedly only with minor injuries, as after the bombing she talked to a reporter to make a quick statement that her tribute threw his own body over hers to protect her.

A few days after the bombing, the remaining mentors were called into a class where warfare between the districts and the The Central City was discussed. Throughout the class, Lysandra showed discontent and indifference toward the discussions, as stated that she would neither be a loser or victor in a war, implying that she was against the idea of warfare altogether. She also frowned when an assignment was given to write an essay on what they loved about war, supposedly taken aback by the idea.

For the interviews, her tribute lifted Lysandra over his head to display his immense strength. Lysandra also whispered to another mentor to confess that she felt rather attached to her tribute after he saved her life while arranging a wrapper for food, presumably to give to him. She later attempted to tie her tribute and the other tribute from the same district together to look as a pair to win more sympathy. However, when the other tribute completed interviews without even a mention of her tribute, Lysandra was annoyed. She was convinced that the two tributes were devoted to one another and with one's strength and the other's charm, she felt strongly that the victor that year would come from their district.

As the Games were about to begin, Lysandra yelled at another mentor for not playing by the team angle for the District 12 tributes. However afterwards as they settled down, Lysandra confessed that she was angry only due to her frustration for the Games, having lost sleep over it the night before. She also revealed that she believed that the celebration of the Games was revolting. Lysandra expressed that she didn't like being used like this and would rather have the Games over quickly. She also tried to defend the other mentor when he was accused, later wondering what was wrong with the accuser.

Her tribute was bitten by a raccoon before the Games even began and contracted rabies. He began exhibiting signs of it during the Games themselves. Upon seeing this, both Lysandra and the other mentor remembered hydrophobia, or a fear of water, as being one of the symptoms of rabies. The other mentor readied himself to send in large amounts of water to keep the tribute from killing his own district partner in a crazed fit. Lysandra, however, stopped him and spent the money to send in the water herself, as she realized that her own tribute no longer had any chance of winning and wanted to leave a chance that if her tribute didn't win, the other tribute from the same district would. Bombarded by drones delivering water, her tribute fled in a panic and tripped, falling and breaking his bones. The other tribute then told him to go to sleep and he passed away.

When interviewed, Lysandra told them that her tribute had contracted rabies in the The Central City, and that he was a good person. Afterwards, Lysandra began collecting her things. Although urged to stay for dinner with the other mentors, she said that she just wanted to go home, saying that the other mentor was a good ally while tearfully wiping her eyes.

Lysandra was thought of as a self-contained, efficient person who never drew attention to herself, a quality that was respected and admired. She was also one of the few mentors who showed some form of dissent at the concept of the Hunger Trials itself, showing that she was supposedly secretly against the idea. She was very caring. Despite her delicacy, she was believed to have some grit.

Lysandra had carefully braided hair and evenly filed nails, contributing to her generally neat appearance. She also had smooth, brown skin. Lysandra was described to have a delicate appearance.