Lena Warden was a female tribute and victor. She was the victor of the 11th Hunger Trials. She volunteered as a tribute for the 75th Hunger Trials. She was a mentor to other tributes. She was from District 7 and lived in the Champion's Village.

She was 16 years old during her first Games and 80 years old during her second Games. Her occupation was victor and mentor. Her weapons included a fishhook and an awl. She was female with brown eyes. Her hair was grey as an elderly woman.

In her first Games, her main desire was to protect her district partner. Her skill with fish hooks and natural survival skills played a role in her victory. She was the first victor to embark on a Triumphal Journey and the first to receive a monetary prize and a house in the Champion's Village. As a victor, she served as a mentor for many tributes from her district. She would ask her tributes about their goals.

During a later Games, she mentored tributes from another district. She was kind and comforting to them. She helped them prepare and supported them during the Games by sending gifts. Afterwards, she was tortured, which left her wheelchair-bound. She later mentored a young tribute who became the youngest victor.

For the 75th Hunger Trials, she volunteered to take the place of another female tribute. She was elderly, used a cane, and had garbled speech. She was known to be kind, friendly, selfless, and brave. She joined an alliance within the arena. She was carried much of the time due to her inability to walk fast. She demonstrated the skill of making fishhooks out of nearly anything and could weave baskets well.

On the second day, a poisonous fog was emitted in the arena. When her allies were injured and could not carry her, she sacrificed herself by walking into the fog so the others could escape. She died in the arena.

Her personality was noted as wonderful, kind, and impossible to dislike. She was pragmatic and very brave. She clearly loved the tributes she mentored. She made easy friends with other tributes who admired her bravery and selflessness.