Mara Lila Brant was a member of the Minstrels and the younger cousin of Mara Jansen and Mara Hayes.
She performed with the rest of the Minstrels and was said to have an amazing singing voice.
After her performance, she would step off the stage to accept spare money and other donations from the audience.
Maude Ivory made her appearance in the story at no more than eight or nine years old.

Maude Ivory grew up with the Minstrels, performing to make a profit and stay alive.
She and the rest of the Minstrels were so distraught about Lucy Gray being chosen at the reaping that they didn't perform for the entire time she was away.
Maude Ivory was especially affected; she was fine during the day, but ever since Lucy Gray was taken away, she woke up screaming from nightmares.
This continued even after her cousin's return.

During the Minstrels's first performance after Lucy Gray returned, Maude Ivory wore a pink dress and curtsied before introducing her fellow Minstrels members.
Later, she sang a song, inviting audience members to join in on the chorus.
When the show ended, Maude Ivory passed around a basket for the audience to make donations.
When a visitor showed up after the performance, Maude Ivory defended Lucy Gray and ordered him to leave.
Later, when visitors came to the Minstrels at their home, they heard Maude Ivory singing while cracking nuts outdoors in an old dress.
She fetched Barb Azure and led the visitors to the Meadow to meet Lucy Gray.

The next time the Minstrels performed, Maude Ivory was again gifted popcorn balls, and she sang a ballad because of it.
Not long later, visitors went to see the Minstrels again, this time accompanying them to the lake.
During the walk, Maude Ivory complained of pain caused by the shoes she was wearing, and was carried by the others while she sang.
When they arrived at the lake, Maude Ivory went to pick berries and explained the Minstrels's unique names.
While she napped, she was gifted a blue feather to put in her hair.
She later went to trade berries for new shoes.

During a performance, Maude Ivory had the entire audience caught up in a sing-along when a murder took place.
She was the one to find the bodies, screaming hysterically and shaken up by the discovery.
The next weekend, at a birthday party, Maude Ivory wore a buttercup yellow dress and led the audience in singing a birthday song.

Maude Ivory eventually died and was buried in the Minstrels's secret graveyard.
Like all of the Minstrels members, Maude Ivory's grave was marked with a snippet of her name poem.

Maude Ivory was confident, as she was the one who introduced the rest of the Minstrels at the start of their performances.
She was also quite sweet, making her a crowd favorite where she played the drums and sang.
She was said to be able to remember anything with a tune after only hearing it once.

Maude Ivory was a short, little girl with a wispy frame.
During performances, she was seen wearing fancy, colorful dresses and she often curtsied or pirouetted to show thanks.
Maude Ivory also had a sweet, squeaky voice.

Maude was an Old German name meaning "powerful battler".
The latter part, Ivory, is the material used for piano keys.
Her surname, Baird, is derived from the word "bard", meaning "poet" or a professional singer who tells stories through song.

Since some of the Minstrels's songs survived through a character who learned them from her father, it's been theorized that that character's family are descendants of the Minstrels— probably through Maude Ivory, who shared the ability to memorize music after a listen or two. A later story confirms that the family are distantly related to the Minstrels.

Maude Ivory was "crazy for butter", so much so that a fellow Minstrels member fashioned her a butter churn for her birthday. However, her date of birth is never stated. She was afraid of snakes.