Maya was one of the female tributes from District 7 in the 50th Hunger Games, also known as the second 25-Year Hunger Games. She placed 4th out of 48 in her Games and was an ally of another tribute. She was the original owner of the mockingjay pin.

Before the Games, she lived with her parents and twin sister above a sweet shop. She was often dressed in the same clothing as her sister. She wore various necklaces. The mockingjay pin was originally hers. She disliked the pin and kept it in her dresser. It later became a symbol for the rebellion against the Capitol.

She was one of the four tributes from District 7. The usual number of contestants was two, but because the Games were a 25-Year Hunger Games, twice the number of tributes were reaped. During the train ride, she defended another tribute from an insult. At the Academy's gym, she got a make-over. As they were led out on the chariots, an accident occurred causing a cart to crash and a tribute died. She took off a beaded necklace and placed it around the little girl's neck, as she was originally going to give it to her as her token.

At breakfast the following day, she declined the food and drank a cup of black coffee. She commented about disliking the matching outfits. She told her mentor that she didn't want to beg or plead for her life, that she wanted to go out with her head up. She offered to be another tribute's ally. They discussed training.

As the tributes were transported to the gym, she told another tribute that he needed to have more attitude. She came up with their nickname: "loose cannons". They took on this persona during training, where they were unpredictable and wild. They first practiced throwing knives. She hit more than she missed. They were pulled aside and told they needed to join an alliance. She interacted with the alliance leader, making him a necklace from his wire. Throughout training she took the other tributes of the newly-formed alliance and made them into special bracelets, necklaces, and other nick-nacks.

She achieved a score of 6 in her private session with the Gamemakers, presumably having demonstrated her ability at manipulating cords.

During her time in the arena, she escaped from the Golden Horn with only a blowgun, a bowl, some dried beef, and a backpack of rope. She was very resourceful, dipping the blowgun darts into numerous amounts of poisons available in the arena to kill other tributes. On one day, she single-handedly killed another tribute. When an ally was about to be killed, she shot the attacker with her poison dart. She arranged a temporary alliance, saying that they would last longer with the two of them.

On another day, they encountered tributes being attacked by a mutt. They managed to deter the mutt but two tributes were already dead. They tried to rescue another, feeding him the antidote but it just spilled and he died.

Later, she and her ally were ambushed, but they encountered some Gamemakers cleaning up. One was killed with a trident and she killed one with a poison dart. The other tripped and fell. A bomb was dropped, separating them.

She and her ally broke off their alliance when they were among the final five tributes alive, as she didn't want to have to kill him.

She died only minutes after parting with her ally, being attacked by a large number of bright, candy-pink birds that used their sharp beaks to skewer her in the neck. Her ally held her hand and stayed with her until she died. The birds were programmed to target only her and ignored her ally when he tried to save her.

She was able to single-handedly kill two other tributes with her poison darts. She also killed a Game Master with a dart to the neck.

She is said to have had smooth, straight blonde hair and blue eyes. She had great cheekbones and long eyelashes. After her make-over, her hair changed from straight to tight curls. She wore a lavender dress at the reaping ceremony. She always wore half a dozen necklaces, some were beaded, some corded, some with trinkets hanging off them, and one made of real gold. For the Tribute Parade, she and the other District 7 tributes wore coal miners' outfits.

She is described as usually quite stuck-up, though she can be kind. She can also be quite blunt and critical.

She was described to be quite resourceful, as she came up with the idea to dip her darts for her weapon, the blowgun, into the poisonous substances in the arena. She was also quite accurate with her blowgun, killing even a Career tribute. She also played a large role in creating and fixing tributes' tokens.

She and her ally had known each other most of their lives, but never liked each other. She had a low opinion of him. However, their relationship drastically changed when they both were reaped. She becomes impressed with him showing defiance and joins him in forming an alliance with other tributes. Despite his initial dislike, she made an alliance with him, and the two began to bond more, developing a sibling-like dynamic. When she killed a Game Master, she was angry that he did not join her and nearly broke their alliance until she changed her mind, showing she understood his reluctance and did not wish to kill him. When she was fatally wounded, he ran to her and held her hand, comforting her as she died.

After facing rejection from other tributes, she and another tribute agree to form an alliance. Despite her abrasive attitude, she shows kindness towards him, defending him after a nasty comment. She shows care for him. She ends up assisting him in appearing more intimidating. Later, during training, she weaves his token into a necklace so he can easily wear it, but she designs it so that he can easily pop the coin in and out, knowing that fidgeting with the coin helps him think. While preparing for interviews, he says that she "isn't a bad bet" and has a decent shot of winning the Games, displaying a clear respect for her. She later expresses grief at his death, having directly witnessed it.

She died before her niece was born, but her niece inherited her mockingjay pin. Her sister and aunt were said to look a lot like her niece.

Despite her disdain for most workers in the Games, she has a better relationship with one. She helps her offer the tributes style and makeup advice before the interviews. They were described as "two girls on a mission to beautify the world."

She is the only known District 7 tribute to make it to the top five who did not survive to become a victor.
She and her sister are the first confirmed pair of twins.
She loved jewelry and fashion.
She was predetermined to work at her family's sweet shop for life, but she shared that she never wanted to work there.