Merrilee Undersee was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Donner. She was Mara's twin sister who was one of the female tributes for District 7 in the 50th Hunger Games. She was Mayor Anderson's wife and Madge Underwood's mother. She lived in District 7 with her family.

When Merrilee was younger, she lived with her parents and twin sister above a sweet shop on the merchant side of District 7. She was close with her sister's best friend. Merrilee always went along with what her sister did and often dressed in the same clothing as her sister by their mother.

At some point, Merrilee and her sister were gifted bird pins. Merrilee was given a hummingbird pin while Maysilee was given a mockingjay pin which she greatly disliked. Merrilee carelessly lost her hummingbird pin by dropping it into a well shortly after receiving it.

During the reaping of the 50th Hunger Games, Merrilee and her friend were devastated when Maysilee was selected as a tribute. After Maysilee's death during the Games, Merrilee and her parents attended her funeral. During the memorial service, Merrilee was mistaken as Maysilee by the victor of the 50th Hunger Games, causing her and her father to break down in tears.

Years after her sister's death, Merrilee was never the same afterwards, suffering from massive headaches in her adulthood that caused her to lie in bed all day. Her daughter passed on this information, and when asked why they didn't get medicines, the response was that even the mayor had his restrictions. After a whipping, her daughter asked her mother if she could bring some of her medicine and took it to the home where the injured person lay recovering.

Merrilee, her husband, and her daughter, as well as the two people who worked for them, did not survive the bombing of District 7.

Merrilee's husband was the mayor of District 7. She had one daughter. She also had a twin sister named Maysilee, who died in the 50th Hunger Games after being attacked by a large number of bright, candy pink birds. Merrilee attended her twin's funeral alongside their mother and father.

On her and Maysilee's 13th birthday, their father gave them pure gold pins, previously owned by his mother. Merrilee received a gold hummingbird pin.

Her twin sister Maysilee would often match outfits with her, including during the reaping of the 50th Hunger Games.