Panem is a sovereign post-nuclear state and current democratic constitutional republic established sometime after a series of ecological disasters and a global conflict brought about the collapse of modern civilization. It is situated in North America, consisting of a federal district, the Capitol, and thirteen outlying districts.

For years, Panem's central government operated as a totalitarian dictatorship and police state with society, particularly in the Capitol, modeled on ancient Rome. The outlying districts were subservient to the Capitol, expected to provide services in exchange for protection given by the Capitol's armies of Peacekeepers, largely to the detriment of the districts' populace. This unequal relationship was brutally enforced for several years, culminating in a civil war known as the Dark Days.

After three years of conflict, the rebellion collapsed with the apparent destruction of Sector 13, bringing an end to the war. However, unbeknownst to the wider populace of Panem, Sector 13 had survived, having organized a separate peace with the Capitol after securing a significant portion of the Capitol's stockpile of nuclear weaponry. In accordance with the ceasefire, Sector 13 disengaged from the insurrection and appeared destroyed in exchange for its independence and a non-aggression pact. The remaining districts were quickly subdued with the resulting Treaty of Treason enforcing a harsh peace on them, as well as instituting the Hunger Games, an annual event established as a continual reminder of the failed rebellion. Public executions and whippings, restrictions on civil rights, and mass surveillance became widespread throughout Panem in the following years. Travel and communication between districts were banned.

For the next seventy-four years, the districts endured oppression at the hands of the Capitol through the Hunger Games. Despite the Games' intended goal of snuffing out future insurrections, they further incited rebellious activity that gradually built up over the decades. By the time of a certain President's rule, civil unrest was mounting in a number of districts which, following a specific Hunger Games, further escalated despite several brutal crackdowns. This culminated in the Second Rebellion following another Hunger Games, with the districts once again being led by Sector 13 in a revolution to overthrow Panem's totalitarian government. Within a year, the regime was deposed and Panem was transformed into a democratic constitutional republic.

The name "Panem" derives from the Latin phrase Panem et circenses, which literally translates into "bread and circuses". The phrase itself is used to describe entertainment used to distract public attention from more important matters. Furthermore, by the government providing ample food, entertainment and protection, the citizens would give up their political rights.

According to the Capitol, Panem has a population of 4,556,778 people.

Panem is located on the continent of North America. The administrative center of the country, the Capitol, is located in the Rocky Mountains. Each one of its thirteen outlying districts are situated across the continent and given their large size, cover significant portions of land.

The size of the country is known not to be as large as North America today, given that large areas of land across the world were flooded by rising sea level. Nevertheless, maps of Panem indicate it is about as large as a former contiguous nation, spanning from the east coast to the west coast of North America. Given the territory it covers, Panem's geography largely resembles that of a former large nation.

For presumably the majority of its history since its founding, Panem was run as a totalitarian dictatorship led by a president who served for life and wielded absolute power over the government and military. The exact details of the national government are unknown, but it is at least known the President possesses a cabinet, with ministers that presumably oversee different areas of the government.

The government overall is modeled after that of ancient Rome, reflected in Capitol society by the citizenry taking names of Greco-Roman origin and the architecture of the city. It is unknown if Panem possesses other branches of government such as a judiciary or a legislature, although given the authoritarian nature of the Panemian central government, both either don't exist or are under the complete control of the executive branch headed by the President. Following Panem's transition into a constitutional republic after the Second Rebellion, it is implied some form of representative democracy was established through the holding of presidential elections.

Due to its authoritarian government, Panem politically and ideologically resembled historical extremist dictatorship‑led nations, with its centrally planned economy and all major industries run by Capitol oligarchs under state oversight. The Capitol set minimum production quotas for each of the Districts, and the Districts are subject to a system of central planning rather than a market economy. Many aspects of society were also quite conservative. Because of its totalitarian dictatorship governing Panem, citizens, particularly in the districts, have little civil liberties and virtually no capacity for self‑governance or say in how to be governed. Even in the Capitol, its citizens have surrendered such rights in exchange for "bread and circuses." As such, Capitol citizens partake in lavish and hedonistic lifestyle dominated by mass entertainment, parties, and extravagant fashion that is largely removed from the oppressions and destitution faced by the outlying districts.

Law enforcement is provided through a military/police force known as the Peacekeepers. Each district possesses a local garrison of Peacekeepers led by a Head Peacekeeper. This individual is responsible for commanding the district's Peacekeeper force and the enforcement of the laws of Panem within their designated district. It is assumed that the President of Panem is commander‑in‑chief of the Peacekeepers.

The Peacekeeper force was originally headquartered in Sector 13, the then center of Panem's military‑industrial complex. Following the Dark Days, the Peacekeepers' headquarters were relocated to District 8. Presumably for the next seventy‑five years, the Capitol's command and control center for its military was centered in a heavily fortified mountain fortress. As a result of District 8's position regarding the Capitol military, most soldiers who enlisted in the Peacekeepers came from District 8, although a significant portion originated from the Capitol, with a small minority coming from the other Districts.

Peacekeepers were distinguished by their near‑all white uniforms. In times of intense civil unrest, there is a tactical variant of their uniform that is more heavily armored.

The Peacekeepers had a number of mechanized equipment at their disposal including armored ground vehicles as well as the Capitol's vast fleet of hovercraft. In addition, the Capitol is known to possess a significant arsenal of nuclear weapons.

Much of Panem's history is shrouded in mystery, though known history dates back approximately seventy‑five years prior to the beginning of the story.

An unspecified time before the events of the story, the Earth was devastated by climate change and global nuclear war(s) that led to the collapse of modern civilization. Surviving populations that survived this initial calamity were further decimated by the subsequent nuclear winter and catastrophic ecological events that followed, which included droughts, fires, storms, and rising sea levels.

Some time after this apocalyptic event, survivors from the collapse of civilization in North America eventually founded a new nation in the region of the Rocky Mountain that would come to be known as Panem. It is unknown precisely when Panem was established and how long it has existed, though it is certain that Panem has been around for more than seventy‑five years.

Panem eventually grew large enough that it was segmented into thirteen separate districts, each responsible for producing goods of a particular industry to serve the growing needs of the nation, and all operating under the auspices of Panem's oppressive Capitol. The exact method of Panem's expansion is unknown; it is possible that some of the separate districts may have even once been smaller, separate survivor nations that were eventually annexed or conquered by Panem.

Approximately seventy‑four years before the events of the story, the various districts of Panem, led by Sector 13, rebelled against the Capitol. The primary reasons of the revolution largely lay with the oppressive fashion in which the Capitol government ruled over and exploited the districts. This civil war lasted three years, and although the exact number of casualties on either side is not known, both factions sustained heavy losses, while Panem itself was ravaged by the war.

Over the course of the conflict, the tide shifted between both sides, but in the war's waning days, it decisively shifted against the rebelling districts. Realizing the rebellion was lost, Sector 13 sought a separate peace with the Capitol after securing a significant portion of its nuclear arsenal. Unwilling to escalte the insurrection into a nuclear war, the Capitol agreed to 13's demands for independence and a non‑aggression pact on the condition it renege its support for the other districts and appear destroyed on the surface, which Sector 13 accepted. Following the apparent destruction of Sector 13, the Capitol quickly subdued the remaining districts in the final stage of the conflict known as the Dark Days. With the pacification of the remaining twelve districts the Treaty of Treason was signed and through it the Capitol enacted sweeping new laws restricting civil liberties and enforcing heavy surveillance on the defeated districts in order to guarantee peace and order. Furthermore, as a cruel reminder to the districts each year so that the Dark Days should never happen again, the Capitol instituted the Hunger Games.

In the wake of the rebellion, the Capitol established the Hunger Games, an annual event in which twenty‑four children between the ages of twelve and eighteen, one boy and one girl from each district, are chosen from a lottery. Tributes could also sign up for tesserae in exchange for more slips in the lottery. The selected tributes as they were called were brought to the Capitol, where after a brief period of survival and combat training, were entered into a gladiatorial competition where they must fight each other to the death until only one remains standing. This individual was subsequently crowned a victor and was ensured a life of luxury and extraordinary privilege.

The event served three purposes. The first was for the event to serve as a continual reminder to the districts' populace of the cost of insurrection and to never again make an attempt at another rebellion. This was emphasized in the special quarter‑century iterations of the Games, the Quarter Quell, whose special rules were tailored toward the actions of the rebels during the Dark Days. The second was to demonstrate the overwhelming power the Capitol had over the districts by taking their children by force and making them slay each other in a no‑rules free‑for‑all competition. It was to serve as proof that the Capitol's control over its people was so inexorable and unstoppable that they could do something so sadistic as to force the children of their conquered foes to slay each other in a battle royale. The third purpose was purely for entertainment, particularly for the citizens of the Capitol. The Hunger Games were a nationally televised event in the same vein as a reality show that all of its citizens were required to watch.

Over the next seventy‑five years, the districts were continually oppressed and heavily surveilled by the Capitol through its ever present Peacekeeper force. Laws were strictly enforced by the districts' resident Peacekeepers, and public whippings and executions became commonplace. To add further insult to injury, the districts were forced to annually bear witness to the humiliation and horror of the Hunger Games, hoping one of the two tributes reaped return as a victor. The first ten iterations of the Hunger Games were held in the Capitol and were quite primitive and flawed. Following a disastrous Hunger Games, the modern attributes of the Hunger Games were eventually implemented including that the victor shall live a life of luxury and privilege, that they shall reside in a lavish community in their district known as the Victors' Village, and that the Games would be held in specially crafted arenas in presumably isolated regions throughout North America. At some point in the history of the Games, the wealthier districts began instituting training programs led by victors to prepare children for the Hunger Games. Despite this being illegal according to the rules of the Hunger Games, the Capitol turned a blind eye to this practice, likely for it adding a further degree of excitement to the Games itself and as a means of further dividing the districts.

Nevertheless, despite the Hunger Games' intended purpose of ensuring no further revolts occurred amongst the districts, the Games inadvertently acted to only further incite the district population to rebel. Popular resentment subtlety rose amongst the districts over the course of decades of Hunger Games. An unknown amount of time prior to a specific Hunger Games, a conspiracy involving several Hunger Games victors, high‑ranking members of the government, and Sector 13 arose with the intended purpose of ending the Hunger Games and overthrowing the totalitarian government of Panem.

The Second Rebellion's origin laid in the aftermath of a specific Hunger Games, although momentum toward the revolution had been building for decades since the institution of the Games. It was sparked by an act which was interpreted as an act of rebellion by many residents of the districts. As a result, it caused a dramatic rise in civil unrest in the districts in the months following those Games and into the lead up to the start of another Hunger Games, which was also a Quarter Quell.

During the finale of that Quarter Quell, whose special rule stipulated that past victors were to be reaped into the games, an act destroyed the force field surrounding the arena. The tribute was subsequently rescued and transported to Sector 13, which had been rebuilt as an underground city‑sized bunker before being bombed during the Dark Days. Other surviving victors were also rescued, while some were left behind and captured by the Capitol. Immediately following the impromptu conclusion of those Games, multiple districts throughout Panem went into full‑blown revolt against the regime, marking the start of the Second Rebellion. As an act of retribution for the actions at the end of that Quarter Quell, the Capitol destroyed a district, echoing the faked destruction of Sector 13 during the Dark Days, although a small number of citizens would escape prior.

With the revolution now in full swing, a symbol was recruited at the urging of the Sector 13 president, for the purpose of serving as a symbol of the rebellion and rallying call for the resistance to overthrow the totalitarian government. Over the course of the following year, propaganda shoots were performed at several battlefields throughout Panem, inspiring citizens to continue the fight against the Capitol by showcasing the atrocities they inflicted on the districts. In a similar vein, the Capitol utilized a spokesperson for their own purposes. Despite this effort, Capitol forces were gradually pushed backed as Sector 13 military forces, alongside local rebel forces, liberated each one of the outlying districts. Following the destruction of the Capitol's command and control center for their military forces, and the fall of its most loyal district, the city of the Capitol itself was the only territory left under their control.

In the final battle of the war, the Capitol itself was placed under siege, with rebel forces invading the city. Fierce fighting overtook the city, as rebel forces pushing back Capitol forces block by block, despite the latter's liberal use of sadistic traps and mutts alongside their Peacekeeper forces. At the battle's climax, with rebel forces pushing into the City Center, an order was given for a false flag operation by using a Capitol‑marked hovercraft to bomb Capitol civilians being used as a human shield. After a second round of bombings resulted in the deaths of several Capitol children, an impromptu ceasefire was declared as all remaining support collapsed for the regime and the President was subsequently arrested.

Following the fall of the regime, an interim president was instated and issued a vague promise of holding democratic elections at some point in the future once reconstruction from the revolution was completed. During a public execution that was to be conducted by the symbol at her own request, the interim president was assassinated, while the former President died. After this, a Commander was elected President of Panem and the Hunger Games were officially abolished. Soon after, the new President oversaw the liberalization and restructuring of Panem into a democratic constitutional republic.

The nation of Panem is separated into a total of thirteen self‑contained subdivisions known as districts spread across North America. For seventy‑five years after the Dark Days, twelve of the districts were recognized as operational by the Capitol, while Sector 13 was destroyed during the closing days of the war (in reality having secretly seceded as an independent nation‑state as part of a separate peace with the Capitol). Following the Second Rebellion, Sector 13 was reintegrated into Panem's political structure.

Each of the districts were responsible for producing, procuring, or refining goods in a particular industry as dictated by the Capitol, with the vast majority of said goods being shipped to the Capitol to fuel the hedonistic and lavish lifestyles of the city's populace. Prior to the Second Rebellion's close, District citizens had little freedom to choose careers outside of their district's designated industry as they were not allowed to travel outside of their respective district. Free markets outside of the Capitol are illegal, though some grey market exchange is tolerated. With all major industries privately owned by wealthy Capitol families under state oversight, Panem operates as a semi‑feudal fascist state. All trade and commerce between the districts is generally forbidden, as most of the districts' produced goods are sent to the Capitol. Welfare levels vary significantly, and are often dependent on the goods it produces; some districts especially those whose industry specializes in food and less appealing goods, are far more impoverished than wealthier districts, though no district is nearly as wealthy as the Capitol itself. Following the restructuring of Panem after the Second Rebellion, it is assumed the districts were allowed to diversify their economies.

All of the districts are subject to the unrelenting will of the authoritarian Capitol, and have no known influence concerning the national politics of Panem beyond their own individual territories. As such, the local government of the individual districts are not entirely known. A district possessed a mayor, with a garrison of Peacekeepers composed of local and Capitol‑sourced soldiers overseeing law enforcement under a Head Peacekeeper and it can be assumed the other Districts are governed in a similar way. It is unknown how the mayor of a district is selected, whether by election of the districts citizens or via appointment from the Capitol, although given the authoritarian nature of the Capitol, the latter is more likely.

While it is unclear as to the level of interactions the districts had prior to the Dark Days, following the implementation of the Treaty of Treason, all inter‑district travel and communications was banned as a means of isolating the district from one another. As such, the districts retain very little if any interactions with one another and each one has developed a unique culture unaffected by the other districts. Information on the other districts is similarly heavily restricted amongst the basic citizenry, beyond knowledge of the other districts' industry in relation to the Capitol.

The Capitol, as its name suggests, is the seat of government of Panem and has long been considered the center or heart of the nation. For nearly the entire history of Panem, the Capitol has dominated all of the districts, whose food and resources are forcibly taken to propagate the city's economy and the prosperity and lifestyle of its inhabitants.

The residents of the Capitol are generally the wealthiest and most decadent in of all Panem; living lives of conspicuous consumption, the people are most known for their lavish and "eccentric" sense of fashion, to the extent of radical body modifications. The city's prosperity is fueled by the industries and forced labor of the districts, and Capitol citizens are rarely, if ever, seen engaging in manual labor or any other serious work of their own. Instead, the lives of the Capitol citizens are centered around the latest fashion trends and the vast array of entertainment provided by the city, including the Hunger Games, which is considered the largest and most celebrated form of entertainment for its citizens.

The Capitol is located in the western part of the country, in an area formerly known as the Rocky Mountains. The Capitol is surrounded by the thirteen outlying districts and while it is a prominent territory, it is not considered a district in‑and‑of‑itself.

Many of the wealthier districts