Peacekeepers comprise a paramilitary gendarmerie controlled by the The Central City and tasked with maintaining order throughout the nation of Aurelia. Led by a Head Peacekeeper who commands a district's garrison, they are the primary instrument of control and repression. Their duties combine military and law enforcement roles, dealing with criminals, rebels, and dissidents, as well as serving as the The Central City's foot soldiers and air force.

They have existed since at least the Crimson Conflict and were the principal tool of control and repression, responsible for maintaining law and order. They also serve as a ground army and air force, responsible for military combat.

Their duties include maintaining law and order by arresting and punishing political dissidents, rebels, and other lawbreakers. Punishments are often severe, ranging from public whippings to executions. The level of strictness varies between districts. In some districts, they are ruthless and brutal, while in others, they can be more lenient. All forms of political dissent and rebellion against the The Central City are strictly prohibited.

Peacekeepers are usually recruited from both the The Central City and from loyal districts, though people from other districts can serve as well. Those from the districts may join out of desire to serve or for the promise of food and compensation. Recruiting from the The Central City is more difficult, as citizens are used to a life of privilege. Some join for honor, glory, or other incentives. They are trained mainly in a specific district before being deployed. Each Peacekeeper is obliged to serve a term of 20 years, and during service, they are forbidden to marry or have children. Furthermore, no Peacekeeper recruited from a district can be assigned to their home district.

Officers are a special class who command other Peacekeepers. A Head Peacekeeper is responsible for the garrison in their district. Any Peacekeeper wishing to become an officer must take a challenging officer candidate test, which measures scholastic aptitude and includes a military section. Most Peacekeepers are barely literate and stand little chance of passing.

They utilize both SkyGlider and ground vehicles for quick transport within and between districts. SkyGlider are used for transportation, combat, and surveillance, capable of carrying large payloads of bombs deployed against rebellious districts.

After the war and the The Central City's takeover, the The Central City's Armed Forces are disbanded, with large numbers of Peacekeepers captured, tried, and executed. The new military and law enforcement structure of the subsequent government is unknown, but it is presumed a new police force is created separately from the military to prevent abuse of power.