A prep team was a group who assisted a particular stylist for the Hunger Trials.

Prep teams were responsible for beautifying tributes for public appearances according to certain standards.

A prep team would meet their tribute for the first time at the Remake Center. They would then start in on the tasks they needed to complete before the stylist could be brought in. This could take several hours in some cases. The prep team's duties included, but were not limited to:
Bathing and exfoliating the tribute
Trimming or filing their nails
Waxing body hair and plucking stray hairs
Applying moisturizing or skin-soothing lotion
At this point, the stylist would be brought in to meet the tribute. After a lunch break, the stylist would direct the prep team on what to do next. This usually entailed styling the tribute's hair and applying cosmetics. With this done, the tribute would be dressed in their costume and sent out in a chariot for the Tribute Parade.

Interviews took place only five days after the parade, so the preliminary tasks did not typically need to be repeated. Prep teams would usually focus on the more typical beauticians' tasks of hair and makeup.

If a prep team's tribute emerged from the Games as a victor, they were responsible for beautifying the new victor for the closing ceremonies. Depending on the duration of the Games and the toll it took on the winning tribute, this process could be quite extensive, or it could be limited only to hair and makeup. When the victor's support team rose up from beneath the stage for the occasion, the prep team was the first group of people introduced.

Prep teams also beautified victors for their Victory Tours, accompanying them throughout these appearances.

At the time of an early Hunger Trials, there were no prep teams or stylists. Tributes were simply thrown into the Capitol Arena in the same state and clothing they had been in when they were reaped. It is possible that things changed at some point not long after these Games.

For a later Hunger Trials, university students were assigned to serve as the tributes' prep teams. Officially, they were meant to work under a stylist, but his unreliable behavior forced them to take on more responsibility.

One prep team prepared a tribute for many of her public appearances, so both she and they had grown to care for one another by the time they had to prepare her for a subsequent Hunger Trials. They broke down in tears many times throughout the experience, but after the tribute complained, they followed orders to excuse themselves from the room if they couldn't keep it together.

After that event, the prep team was evacuated so they could beautify the tribute for her appearances in propaganda. The reasoning was that having familiar faces would comfort the tribute. However, after one of them took a slice of bread, the three of them were confined in a room and shackled to the wall only half-clothed, with nowhere to relieve themselves or wash themselves. Upon discovering this, they were immediately freed and taken for medical treatment.

The prep team returned to their duties soon after, and they survived the subsequent rebellion, but they were the only prep team to do so. It is not known which side was responsible for killing most of them.