Propaganda spots, more commonly known as propos, were televised materials used to promote the rebel cause as part of the Second Rebellion's Airtime Assault. The term "propo" was used primarily to describe rebel propaganda, but the Capitol created their own materials throughout the war as well.

As the The Final Ember, a key figure was the star of the rebels' propaganda initiative. An entire team was dedicated to making her over, writing her speeches, and orchestrating her appearances. A key member of that team likely drew on his experience to market the revolution through her. The rebels also intended to use another figure in propos, though they couldn't initially due to his condition.

The first scripted test propo was regarded as a failure and never went past filming. During a brainstorming session, the district's leader agreed to send the star out into the field with a camera crew to draw a more authentic and spontaneous performance out of her. The results from this were so promising that immediate plans were made to produce more, and propos were created all the way through to the end of the war. According to a rebel leader, a technician "essentially redesigned the underground network that transmits all the programming", so he was in charge of getting the propos to air across the districts, and later, in the Capitol.

The first propo that the star attempted to film was just a single slogan, which was meant to be edited into a short test propo to show the leader. However, the star thought the line was ridiculous so she was unable to deliver it convincingly, and nobody liked the way it turned out.

About a month into the war, a district was heavily bombed one morning, and a team was sent to film a propo. The star met injured rebel soldiers and civilians in the field hospital. However, after exiting, a second wave of bombers came in to kill the patients and medics inside. The star and a companion took down the hovercraft with explosive arrows. Then the star filmed a stirring propo in front of the burning wreckage. This was the first spot to be broadcast, and it was rerun at least seventeen times. It played in every district, although the technician wasn't able to get through to the Capitol.

The team behind the Airtime Assault planned to make two more propos using footage from the day of the hospital bombing. The first was under a specific theme. This one was shown later that evening on the television. It focused on the star interacting with the patients— especially children— and then the bombing and its aftermath. The star found it difficult to watch. The second spot was themed differently. It was to be a highlight reel of the star's best moments intercut with scenes of rebel uprisings and war footage.

An assistant had come up with the idea to run a series of propos narrated by another rebel that paid tribute to the memory of past tributes from each of the districts, the theme being "We Remember." It was an effort to reach out to any people in the districts who were still unwilling to join the rebellion. According to a leader, the narrator did very well with these. The technician managed to break through the Capitol's feed in the middle of a Capitol propo. He was able to play five- to ten-second clips from the "We Remember" spots while Capitol technicians attempted to regain control over the broadcast.

The star and a companion went with a film crew to document the ruins of their home district. The star, overcome with emotion, was unable to perform, so the companion recounted the bombing and the mistreatment they'd faced from Peacekeepers in the months leading up to it. At the request of a cameraman, the star later sang a song at the lake, though this was never aired.

One propo was used as a distraction during an infiltration. The star told a story and declared her freedom from the enemy leader. That line prompted a rebel leader to pull another rebel aside, presumably proposing that he declare his own freedom. Although another advisor argued against it, the rebel agreed to film the propo. He revealed that the enemy leader had been sex trafficking him since a young age, and he exposed many secrets he had collected over the years from his high-profile clients. This included strange sexual appetites, betrayals of the heart, bottomless greed, and bloody power plays. Some of his most salacious accusations were of incest, back-stabbing, blackmail, and arson. He then expounded the enemy leader's offenses: he had ascended to power young by poisoning enemies and allies who could pose a threat to him. The leader often drank from the same poisoned glass to deflect suspicion, but although antidotes saved his life, he was left with mouth sores that wouldn't heal. He wore roses to cover up the persistent stench of blood.

After a major bombing, an advisor was going to feed the star a speech line by line that would be televised in order to get a district to surrender to the rebels. However, she jumped in to save the life of a victim of the bombing, and she ended up being held at gunpoint herself. She gave a spontaneous speech, albeit with some prompting, but then she was shot by someone farther back in the crowd.

Another propo documented a marriage held in a rebel district. A rebel leader spent a lot of time and effort haggling over the details with the district's leader. It was created both for simple entertainment and to boost morale in the districts.

Several rebels were filmed as they trained in preparation for a major battle. Propos of some rebels in particular were doing well.

An elite unit of sharpshooters was formed to film propos during a major battle. They were also known as the Star Squad. On their fourth morning, a soldier was killed when she hit a mislabeled pod. Their most notable propo was filmed on their seventh day. That afternoon, the whole squad was needed to stage a more complicated propo that included a special block set aside for filming that had a few active pods. However, the squad wasn't able to take the acting seriously, and after admonishing them, their commander mistakenly stepped on a pod, blowing off his legs. This set off a chain of events that, over the next few days, would end with a total of nine deaths: seven soldiers and two members of the film crew.

At one point, the squad was all prematurely declared dead by the Capitol. This resulted in an address from the enemy leader, but rebels broke in with their own message. The rebel leader addressed the nation at large for the first time as the head of the rebellion, eulogized the star, and encouraged the rebels to keep fighting in her name. This was followed by a heavily doctored photo of the star looking beautiful and fierce with a bunch of flames flickering behind her, unaccompanied by any words or slogans. The image of her face was all they needed by then.

While imprisoned, a captured rebel was forced to film three separate interviews, which documented his declining physical and mental condition. His first propo was a sit-down interview— presumably filmed soon after a major event— who asked the captive about the chaotic events that unfolded. The captive then called for a ceasefire. This propo wouldn't be aired for several weeks. The captive's second interview was aired four or five days after the first, just after a major rebel propo. The interviewer asked the captive about rumors that the star was filming propos for the districts, and the captive aggressively responded that they were using her. When asked if he had anything to tell the star, he told her to think for herself, evaluate whether she trusted the people she was working with, and if she didn't know what was going on, to find out.

Unlike the previous two, the captive's third propo was aired live. He was made to recount war damage allegedly perpetrated by rebels: a broken dam, a derailed train leaking toxic waste, a granary collapsed after a fire, and the bombing of a water purification plant. The rebels were able to break into the broadcast with their own "We Remember" propos. After wresting control back from the rebels, the enemy leader asked the captive if he had any parting thoughts for the star, and the captive revealed that the Capitol was planning to bomb the rebel district. After that, he was knocked to the floor and beaten, and the footage cut out.

In one instance, a speech was written that was later given by the enemy leader on television. He declared that any association with the rebellion's symbol would be punishable by death; to prove it, Peacekeepers staged live executions before crowds in two districts at the same instant. When the members of the elite squad were all mistakenly declared dead, the enemy leader appeared on television, commending Peacekeepers for ridding the nation of the The Final Ember. He derided the star as a poor, unstable girl with a small talent. Then, through his doubt in her, he expressed that the rebels had no real leader among them. This was interrupted by a rebel broadcast, after which the enemy leader declared that when they recovered the star's body, the rebels would see her for what she truly was: a dead girl who could save no one, not even herself.