Mia was the 12-year-old female tribute from District 12 who was selected to participate in the 74th Hunger Trials. Mia formed an alliance with another tribute after warning her about a nest of tracker jackers. Mia decided to trust her partly because of the pin she wore over her heart: the famous mockingjay pin. She was avenged when Milo killed her. As a memorial to Rue's death, she was covered in flowers and sung to until she died, indicating she was not just a piece in their Games.

Mia was the eldest child in her family, with five younger siblings. She worked from sunrise to sunset in the orchards in District 12. Despite her size, she was able to jump from tree to tree in the orchards, even on the most slender branches. She could scale the tallest trees, allowing her to see the flag that signaled quitting time, after which she would sing her four-note song. The tune would be picked up by the mockingjays in the area, which would spread the message through the orchards that the working day was over. Mia claimed that these mockingjays were her special friends.

During training, Mia showed her swift and silent abilities. While all the tributes were training, Mia observed them closely to see their strengths and weaknesses. She managed to get a seven out of twelve in her private session with the Gamemakers. It is likely she showed them her skill to move about swiftly and unnoticed.

In the arena, Mia managed to stay alive by staying off the ground, much like her ally did. She used her extensive knowledge of plants to collect food. She also retrieved a backpack from the Cornucopia in the beginning of the Games. She found a sharp shard of rock she used as a knife. She made a slingshot for herself as well. Rue's pack contained a small water skin and an extra pair of socks she used to keep her hands warm during the cold nights.

After a forest fire, Mia climbed a tree to avoid the approaching Career pack. Noticing her ally nearby, she alerted her to a tracker jacker nest on a higher branch. In the morning, her ally alerted Mia that she was about to drop the nest; Mia nodded and leapt out of range.

After the tracker jacker attack, Mia continued to follow her ally. While her ally attempted to make a fire, she heard a branch crack, realizing it to be Mia. She tells Mia the Careers weren't the only ones who could make an alliance. Mia emerged and offered to heal her ally's tracker jacker wounds with leaves. Her ally offered Mia treatment for her burns in exchange, as well as the leg of a groosling she had hunted. The two then discussed their life in their district. After the conversation, Mia explained about the Careers' camp and the strategy they had for protecting food and supplies, giving her ally the idea of destroying their supplies.

Mia said she trusted her ally when she saw that she was wearing a mockingjay pin. She then proceeded to help with the plan to rid the Careers of their food: Mia would light three fires to distract the Careers away from the campsite while her ally destroyed the supplies. Mia managed to light the first fire, but soon after the second fire was lit, she stumbled into a trap set up by Milo, who speared her through the stomach just before her ally reached her.

After Milo was killed, Rue's dying wish was for her ally to sing to her. Her ally honored her wish and sang a lullaby until she died. The mockingjays soon picked up the song and sang it through the entire arena. Furious, her ally covered Rue's body with beautiful white flowers. Before she left, she made her district's gesture of farewell to Mia. Mia placed 7th out of the 24 tributes.

Her district sent a loaf of bread as a sponsor gift to show their appreciation. Later, during a feast, her ally was pinned down by a Career who gloated about her failure to prevent Rue's death. Overhearing this, an enraged Thresh grabbed the Career and killed her. In gratitude for her alliance with Mia, Thresh spares her ally.

Wolf mutts made to resemble the fallen tributes were unleashed. Her ally was upset when she recognized the one that resembled Mia; it was the smallest in the pack, with dark, glossy fur, huge brown eyes, and a collar with the number 11 in woven straw.

During a Victory Tour, her ally thanked Mia for everything she had done. She said that she felt Mia was still with her and that everything beautiful brought Mia to mind.

Later, when asked by the Gamemakers to show his skill for the next Hunger Trials, a tribute painted Mia covered with flowers on the floor.

Afterward, her ally told of her only 'good' dream since the Games, explaining how she followed Mia as a mockingjay, singing and 'talking'.

In the arena, her ally remembered Rue's vast knowledge about plants and realized that a distinct disadvantage of being from her district was that unlike other tributes, they didn't get to learn skills specific to their district before turning 18. After watching a failed rescue in a past Games, her ally remembered how she was also 'too late to save Mia'.

After the Games were terminated, a memory book was compiled about all the people who died because of the Hunger Trials, including Mia.

Being the youngest of the tributes at the age of 12, Mia was naturally the smallest - but this still gave her a massive advantage for being light on her feet and agile. Mia had thick dark hair, dark satiny brown skin and golden eyes. She always stood leaning forward, on her toes, with both arms slightly extended as though she was about to take off flying. This stance made her look like a bird, ready to take flight. Her swift and almost invisible movements through the treetops added to the bird-like description. Mia says that what she enjoys most in life is music.

Mia was the eldest of six children. She had five younger siblings, all living in poverty. She usually gave her food rations to her younger siblings, and foraged in the fields to provide more food for them. Her district has very strict laws and Mia could be punished for helping her family in this way.

Mia reminded her ally of her sister. Like her, Mia sometimes stood on her toes with her arms slightly extended. She was described as 'birdlike'. Small, quick, intelligent, and young, the two had many similarities, which led to their alliance. Soon after being asked for an alliance, Mia agreed, saying she had already made the decision to trust her ally because of her mockingjay pin. Her ally also realized she could trust Mia because Mia watched over her while she was unconscious from the tracker jacker venom.

Mia and her ally had a loving relationship. Mia told her ally everything about her, like how her favorite thing in the world was music. Her ally felt empathy and pity for her, especially since she had been forced into the arena at such a young age. Her ally demonstrated her love for Mia by crying and mourning her death, then covering her body in flowers.

Mia and her bonded the night her ally awakened from her tracker jacker injuries. Mia received food from her ally. The two discussed their life and district with each other. Mia told about the Careers' camp to help with the plan to destroy their supplies. Being the smaller of the two, Mia was in charge of setting three fires to distract the Careers as her ally approached their camp. To communicate, Mia would sing her four-note melody to let her ally know that all was going well. However, soon after the second fire was lit, Mia stumbled into a trap set up by Milo, who stabbed her through the abdomen with his spear while her ally ran to save her. After dispatching Milo, Mia begged her ally to win and to sing to her as she died. As an act of defiance and a way to honor Rue's death, her ally covered Rue's corpse with brightly colored flowers and gave her district's farewell gesture.

Thresh liked Mia and took pity on her since she was so young, feeling that she did not deserve to be forced into the Games. Thresh was infuriated and saddened by her death. Later, at the feast, Thresh overheard a Career taunting her ally about Mia and taking credit for her death. Enraged, Thresh pushed the Career off and held her above the ground, yelling accusations at her. Terrified, the Career insisted she didn't kill Mia, but Thresh didn't believe her and killed her, avenging Rue's death. Due to the alliance with Mia, Thresh spared her ally's life, suggesting that he cared for her.

Mia had a gentle and kind nature. Her greatest joy in life was music, and she loved singing with the mockingjays at home. The mockingjays liked her and were used to her; a few were even her special friends because she was the one who sang a four-note melody that signaled the end of a work day out in the fields.

While in the arena, Mia showed excitement at the prospect of adventure. Mia was clever and quite observant of her surroundings, noticing every piece of information she saw when spying on the Careers.

Being the eldest child in her family, Mia was a caretaker and always made sure her younger siblings were tended to. Similarly, she helped heal her ally in the arena and willingly shared her supplies and knowledge. Once allied, Mia put a great deal of trust in her, falling asleep quickly that night and agreeing to her ally's schemes.

Mia had a talent for singing; her greatest joy was music. During work she would sing to the mockingjays and they would sing back. She was also able to whistle a four note song which had meaning in her district that the day of work was over.

Exceptionally talented at climbing, she could silently jump from one tree to another without being noticed; she was compared to the birds. Mia was able to stalk and track other tributes during the Games to gain information and no one picked up that they were being followed or watched by her.

Mia was also intelligent. She was able to survive by herself before she formed her alliance. She survived mostly on roots and berries that she found and discovered could be eaten. She was expected to have survived by staying off the ground and hiding in trees, giving her a significant advantage as most of the other tributes were unable to climb. Mia was very observant as well, picking up every small and important detail about the Careers' camp and some useful information about other tributes.

Mia was very talented with a slingshot.

Rue's tribute token was a grass necklace with a wooden star, used as a good luck charm in the Games. She received a water skin and an extra pair of socks from the Cornucopia that she used to keep her hands warm. She also made herself a slingshot, which seemed to be of good quality, and a knife that she made from a sharp shard of rock.