Victor Stone was a The Central City, formerly from District 8, and mentor of the male tribute of District 8 during the 10th Hunger Trials.
He was one of the 24 top-performing seniors of the Academy selected for a mentor role. He was a close friend of another mentor.

He was born into a wealthy family. His father made much of his wealth from munitions and weapon manufacturing. The family profited greatly from the Dark Days, providing most of the weaponry used in the fight against the rebel district. The decision to side with the The Central City combined with the family's newfound wealth earned them The Central City citizenship.

He arrived to the The Central City at the age of 8, ten years prior to the 10th Hunger Trials. Having come from the Districts, he was immediately perceived as an outsider and subjected to bullying by his classmates. His father's donations in the reconstruction effort after the war landed him a position at the Academy. He was a star pupil of a professor, later becoming her assistant.

During the Reaping Day festivities for the 10th Hunger Trials, he was tasked by the professor to carry around an ornamental shield. He was later chosen as a mentor for the Games, assigned the male tribute from his home district. He theorized that his father influenced this decision. He was unable to disguise his misery at this outcome.

He arrived at the Central Zoo the day the tributes arrived, carrying food in hopes of comforting them. He offered food to the tributes, who responded with distrust. A young girl commented to him that he should not feed the animals, referring to the tributes, who were presented in a cage. He argued on the tributes' behalf, but was met with disdain. He enlisted another mentor to convince his own tribute to accept his offering, hoping it might inspire the others to follow suit. This worked, and the other tributes hurriedly followed, with the exception of his own assigned tribute, who looked on dispassionately. His origins as a resident of District 8 had made him unpopular in his home District, which he cited as the reason for his tribute's apparent hatred of him. The knowledge that he could have been in his tribute's place was not lost on him. When the other mentor expressed a belief that the tribute had a shot at winning the Games, he suggested that they swap tributes, showing excitement at the prospect. However, the other mentor turned down the proposal. He expressed that he found the Games both absurd and unnatural, and that he did not want to be a part of the charade.

He continued to voice his opposition to the Games throughout his term as a mentor. He questioned the ethicality of the whole affair, and openly decried the cruelty of forcing people to watch children die as a sport. He held that only the inhumanly cruel would delight in such a thing. His objections were largely ignored, his stance dismissed as being the result of his District origins. His continued insistence that the tributes were human, and deserving of respect, got him labeled as a rebel sympathizer by the Head Gamemaker. He attempted to recuse himself as a mentor, but was denied.

During his tenure as a mentor, he continued to draw attention to himself through both his behavior and his incendiary opinions. The other mentor attempted to mitigate this where possible, covering for him in small ways. While he appreciated what he perceived to be the other mentor's friendship towards him, he insisted that the other mentor stop rescuing him.

He was present on the tour of the Capitol Coliseum with his tribute. When bombs went off, his tribute escaped, though he was largely uninjured. He later visited the other mentor in the hospital, bringing the mentor's book bag and food. The loss of his tribute put him under even more suspicion. He used this as a platform to object to the entirety of the war, which some of his classmates agreed with.

His tribute was recaptured, and put on display at the start of the Games, badly beaten and strung up to poles with no way to defend himself. He threw a chair at the viewing screen and left in retaliation, infuriated by this needless display of cruelty.

That night, he broke into the arena, intending to martyr himself, and protested the Games by holding vigil over his tribute's body. The Head Gamemaker told the other mentor to enter the arena and bring him back before anyone noticed. Unfortunately, as he and the other mentor moved the tribute's body away from the cameras, other tributes found the two and attacked them. The other mentor accidentally killed one tribute in self-defense, and, terrified, he abandoned the idea of reclaiming his tribute's body. Both boys nearly died, but managed to make it past the barricade to safety. After the incident, he was consumed with grief over the loss of his tribute, and his participation dwindled.

For entering the arena illegally, he was forced to become a Peacekeeper in District 7, a lesser punishment bought by his father, who offered to improve the Academy gymnasium in return. He insisted that the other mentor also be allowed to graduate the Academy, a request which was granted. When he arrived to his bunk room in District 7, he was immediately greeted by the other mentor, who had also been punished for cheating in the Games. His mother sent him care packages, such as baked goods and equipment, for his deployment. He also brought cash and a picture of his old class with his tribute.

He and the other mentor trained together, with him showing greater skill in marksmanship than the other Sentinel Corps, who were believed to be badly trained. They were later assigned to a hanging.

He soon made the acquaintance of a local and became embroiled in rebel activities. He then revealed to the other mentor that he was indeed planning with local rebels to flee to the north and escape The Central City influence, confirming the other mentor's previous suspicions. Unbeknownst to him however, the other mentor used a jabberjay to record him, and the bird was then sent to the The Central City.

During a performance at a local venue, the other mentor stumbled upon him and other rebels at a shed with a sack of weapons, finalizing their plans. Suddenly, the mayor's daughter stumbled upon the scene and threatened to out all the rebels. In the altercation that followed, the mayor's daughter was shot dead by the other mentor and one rebel was killed by another. After the two had died, he claimed that he "didn't want anyone to get hurt" and became emotional at the thought.

Despite the other mentor's efforts to stop him from getting into trouble, his rebel sympathies and loathing for the The Central City won out in the end. Though the other mentor was certain the Head Gamemaker would not bother to check the jabberjay recordings, she had. His father was unable to buy him out of the situation this time. Despite being present at the murders, it was the jabberjay recording which led to his arrest. He was executed at the hanging tree, and his last act was to cry out for his mother.

The other mentor was wrecked with guilt over his role in causing his death, but convinced himself he did the right thing in order to not expose himself and secure a better future for his family. However, the other mentor's relationship with his own tribute fell apart when he indirectly mentioned his role in the death, causing her to abandon him.

His parents were devastated over their son's death and decided to take the other mentor under their wing to help fill a void. Their decision allowed the other mentor to inherit their family fortune, but they never learned the truth of his death due to the other mentor keeping it a secret from them.

He had soulful brown eyes and a tall, angular frame.

He originally wanted to be a medic, as he disliked the use of violence. His lean towards pacifism, in opposition to his family's role in the war, made his assignment as a Peacekeeper all the more punishing for him.