Silmour was a Career Tribute from District 2 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games. She was a part of the Career alliance, and she placed 2nd out of 48 tributes.

Her occupation was Career Tribute. Her weapon was an axe. Her fate was deceased.

She was female and over six feet tall. In film depictions, she had blonde hair and blue eyes.

She was part of the Career pack in these Games. During the 50th Hunger Games, twice the number of tributes were reaped for the event. She was one of two girls representing District 2.

Before the chariot rides, she had a conflict with another tribute and was stopped from attacking by a Peacekeeper. During the chariot parade, she dismounted and beat a horse until she drew blood, after which the horse kicked her to the ground.

During interviews, she was the first tribute interviewed. She bragged about her size and strength, her ability with an axe, and her receiving a training score of ten.

Her podium in the arena was directly to the right of another tribute's. She was part of a pack of sixteen Career tributes. This alliance was likely responsible for most of the bloodbath deaths. They claimed supplies from the Cornucopia. After a volcanic eruption killed many tributes, she was one of thirteen left alive. The lava flow forced survivors into the forest. On the sixth day, she was with other tributes when they encountered and killed several Gamemakers. She was shocked by the other tributes' actions and was criticized for her attitude.

Later, she was found sobbing at the foot of a tree. After being given food, she scampered away. She later decapitated another tribute with her axe, claiming the tribute attacked her.

She made it to the final two, at which point she fought another tribute in hand-to-hand axe combat. Both sustained nearly fatal wounds; her opponent gouged out her eye, and she disemboweled him. She chased him to a cliff at the edge of the arena and threw her axe. Her opponent collapsed, dodging the attack. The axe was flung back by the arena's force field and lodged itself in her head. She ultimately succumbed to her injuries, leaving her opponent as the victor.

She is described as being very large and fast. Throughout events, she was primarily dressed in a specific color to represent her district.

She is described as very confident. Despite the typical arrogance of a Career Tribute, she was devastated at the death of her final ally.

She was the only known tribute from outside certain districts who used an axe in the Games.