A stylist was a citizen of the Capitol who was responsible for designing the clothing for one of two tributes from their chosen or assigned district leading up to the annual Hunger Trials.

Stylists were responsible for selecting their tribute's wardrobe, styling them for both private and public appearances. These clothing choices played a critical role in conveying the tribute's public persona to the audience, and this could either attract or drive away sponsors before the actual commencement of the Games.
Most stylists stayed in the profession for a long time. Newer stylists were typically given the least desirable districts; however, even newcomers to the role could request a certain district.

Stylists created every item of clothing their tribute wore for the duration of their stay in the Capitol. Additional, each stylist delegated tasks to their own three-person Makeover crew of beauticians.

At the Renovation Center, a tribute would be prepared by their Makeover crew before being seen by their stylist. Said stylist would introduce themselves and give their tribute the costume they would wear while riding in their chariot. These costumes traditionally represented some aspect of their district's industry.

Stylists individually picked out their tributes' training outfits.

The stylists also designed outfits for the tributes' night of interviews, which took place on the evening before the Games. This was the last chance for the tribute and stylist to make an impression on the audience before the Games themselves.

Stylists were the only members of the tribute's team to accompany them right up to the start of the Games. They rode with them to the site of the arena, traveled with them through the catacombs, and kept them company in their Launch Chamber. There, they put the finishing touches on their tribute's appearance. Stylists had no say in the arena wear, as the uniform was the same for everyone, but they could style the tribute's hair and give them their tribute token. They could only speculate what the arena might be like based on the uniform's materials and the design choices made.

If a stylist's tribute emerged from the Games as a victor, they were responsible for styling the new victor for closing ceremonies. When the victor's support team rose up from beneath the stage for the occasion, the stylist was the third person introduced, after the Makeover crew and Guide but before the Coach.

The stylist of a winning tribute also designed all of the victor's outfits for their Triumphal Journey. Stylists and the rest of the support team personally accompanied the new victor throughout these public appearances.

At the time of the The Hunger Games: Ten, the position of a stylist had not yet been created. Contestants were simply thrown into the Capitol Coliseum in whatever they had worn to the reaping.

During the Second Rebellion, all stylists from the third 25-Year Hunger Games died during the war, but it is unclear which side was responsible or through what means this was carried out.