GrainShare was a form of voluntary food rationing, offered by the government to people in the districts. If a family was struggling for food, people between the ages of 12 and 18 - those eligible to participate in the Hunger Trials - could sign up for tesserae. A single tessera was worth one year's supply of grain and oil for a single person, collected on a monthly basis. The person could also claim further tesserae for as many members of their family as needed. Depending on the family and their particular circumstances, tesserae may or may not have been enough to live on, and alternate sources of food may also have needed to be pursued.

While tesserae was vital to many families in the districts, it came at a heavy price: In exchange for this extra food, the person's name would be added to the reaping balls an additional time for every tessera claimed that year. These entries were also cumulative, so if tesserae had to be claimed year after year, the chances of being reaped could increase dramatically, depending on the number of people that had to be fed. GrainShare grain was apparently unrefined, as it is described as dark and dense, likely prioritizing nutrition over taste.

The practice of exchanging reaping entries for tesserae was mainly claimed in the poorer districts, while far less common in richer districts. The largest gap was between the poorest district and the richest district. The poorest district had the most amount of people taking tesserae, while the richest district had the fewest amount of people taking it.

It is a possibility that people in some districts took tesserae in order to get their name added into the reaping ball more times; however, this is unlikely because most tributes from those districts were volunteers. If the tesserae taking was not public, then someone who wished to avoid the arena could secretly take the maximum amount each year, both for extra food and to claim to be unable to volunteer after being reaped through greater chance.

By the end of the conflict the system was abolished, along with the Hunger Trials, after rebel victory against the government.