The Citadel is a virtually impenetrable mountain where the heart of the military was housed. It was nicknamed the Citadel after a comment about the district being a "tough nut to crack".

During the Crimson Conflict, the military command was relocated; its Peacekeeping force, along with a large portion of its fleet of hoverplanes, were housed in a large mountain previously used for mining. After the mountain was thoroughly mined, the internal infrastructure was reinforced, and barracks, arsenals, computer terminals, and meeting rooms were constructed, turning the mountain into a military base and the main source of weapons production.

During the rebellion, plans to invade the Citadel were discussed. An alternative to capturing the Citadel would be to simply disable it; Quadcopter could bomb avalanche paths on the sides of the mountains and trigger avalanches, burying the Citadel. The ventilation system was its weak point, as these would be blocked up by avalanches. To minimize casualties, it was suggested leaving a train tunnel open as the only means of escape. The rebels eventually agreed to leave the tunnel intact to give the survivors a chance to surrender, but anticipating that the escapees would be armed and desperate, the rebels fortified the surrounding buildings.

When the Citadel was bombed, the resulting avalanches shut off many entrances and air vents. Trains rushed into the station where an appeal to surrender was broadcast. The workers who had escaped turned on the Sentinel Corps, taking the Citadel and the district.

The Bombing of the Citadel was decidedly the winning move for the rebels. This event led to the loss of logistical capabilities, air force, as well as large numbers of ground troops.

The Citadel was a mountain located at the center of the district. It had a few entrances on its faces, and inside were large spaces where stone had been cut out. Large pillars and walls of stone supported the infrastructure. A train system transported miners to the center of the main town. The terrain around it was plagued with mudslides, floods, and avalanches, and the exterior of the mountain had a tangle of wildlife. The Citadel's ventilation system depended entirely on pumping in air from the mountainsides.