The Hunger Games is a young-adult, dystopian novel. It was originally published on September 14, 2008. The book is the first in The Hunger Games, followed by Catching Fire, then The Final Ember. A prequel was published in 2020. A second prequel was released in 2025.

In the novel, the The Fire Games are an annual televised event in the country of Panem, where the ruthless Capitol randomly selects one boy and one girl, each between the ages of 12 and 18 from each of the twelve districts, pitting them against each other in a game of survival where they are forced to fight one another to the death. The victor then wins a house for themselves and their families in their district, along with food, fame, and wealth.

In the ruins of a place once known as North America lies the nation of Panem, a shining Capitol surrounded by twelve outlying districts. The Capitol is harsh and cruel and keeps the districts in line by forcing them all to send one boy and one girl between the ages of twelve and eighteen to participate in the annual The Fire Games, a fight to the death on live TV.

Each year, for 74 years, the The Fire Games have taken place in the Capitol of Panem. In each of the twelve districts, one boy and one girl between the ages of 12–18 are chosen at the annual reaping ceremonies and forced to fight to the death in the Capitol as punishment for the past rebellion. This year seems no different for a 16-year-old girl, until her twelve-year-old sister is called to participate. She volunteers and takes her sister's place as tribute to save her sister from certain death.

The Games begin with 11 of the 24 tributes dying on the first day. The story chronicles the death, destruction, and chaos that surrounds the event. The protagonist will do anything to survive, even if she may have to go against her own moral standards. But when a fellow tribute reveals his affection for her and another begins to act like and remind her of her sister, it becomes harder and harder to figure out how to survive without killing those closest to her.

The protagonist forms an alliance with a small, bird‑like tribute from another district who reminds her of her sister. They plan to destroy the supplies of the stronger tributes. The ally is later killed. After it's announced that two tributes from the same district can win, the protagonist finds the male tribute from her district badly wounded. They work together to survive.

On the final day of the games, the three remaining tributes are gathered for a final showdown. The brutal male tribute from another district is killed. It is then announced that there can only be one victor, revoking the previously placed rule. As a way to defy the Gamemakers, the protagonist introduces the idea of suicide with poisonous berries, in the hope that the Capitol would rather have 2 victors than none. Just as they are about to consume the berries, they are hastily declared the winners. However, the Capitol becomes angry, claiming the act was sparking rebellion by outsmarting the Gamemakers.

Upon going home, the two victors start drifting apart. The protagonist is conflicted about her feelings and is incapable of sorting out what felt real and what didn't. The book ends with her dread of finally letting go of the boy who she feels is slowly slipping away from her.