The Hunger Games: The Final Ember — Final Battle is the film adaptation of the second half of The Final Ember and the fourth film in The Hunger Games film series. It is the sequel to The Hunger Games: The Final Ember — Part 2, the film adaptation of the first half of the book.

With the Commonwealth in a full-scale war, the protagonist confronts the President in the final showdown. Teamed with a group of closest friends, the protagonist goes off on a mission with a unit as they risk their lives to liberate the citizens and stage an assassination attempt on the President who has become increasingly obsessed with destruction. The mortal traps, enemies, and moral choices that await will challenge more than any arena faced in the Hunger Games.

The protagonist recovers after nearly being murdered by a friend who had been conditioned by the Capitol. The protagonist asks the rebel leader to be sent to the last district outside rebel control. While there, a quarrel occurs over how much mercy should be shown to Capitol supporters. After rebel forces destroy the Capitol's weapons supply, the protagonist shoots a propaganda film as refugees are cornered and forced to surrender. When attempting to intervene and prevent further bloodshed, a fight breaks out, during which the protagonist is shot. Meanwhile, the President rebukes a minister and kills him. The President then orders ministers to withdraw all forces into the center of the Capitol and have defenses set up, to prepare for a bloody final stand.

During recovery, the protagonist visits the conditioned friend; the friend is recovering some memories but remains unstable and resentful, which causes depression. The protagonist approaches the rebel leader and demands to kill the President as a final mission, but the leader declines in favor of preserving the protagonist as the symbol of the revolution. During a wedding, another character tells the protagonist of an aircraft leaving for the outskirts of the Capitol, where a Commander is rallying troops for an all-out assault on the city. Sneaking aboard, the protagonist is welcomed by the rebels, to the leader's irritation. The protagonist and a camera crew, along with friends, are assigned to a squad. However, they discover that their mission is to trail behind the invasion and be the onscreen face of the rebellion. They use a holographic map to evade booby traps created by Game Master which line the streets; a friend cynically compares the traps to an arena. The conditioned friend is unexpectedly assigned to the team by the rebel leader despite still being vulnerable to the conditioning. The squad leader warns the protagonist to be careful, because the rebel leader sees the protagonist as a potential threat to authority, and may have placed the friend on the team to indirectly enable elimination. The protagonist initially acts hostile towards the friend, but eventually they begin to open up to one another, as it is realized the friend has trouble telling real memories from conditioned ones.

As the squad ventures deeper, they are ambushed by an unmarked trap that fatally injures the squad leader; command of the unit is transferred to the protagonist before the leader dies. Another trap is triggered, which releases a flood of black ooze. The friend's conditioning drives an attack again, during which another squad member is pushed into the ooze but is restrained long enough for the squad to evade the ooze and escape into a building. With the squad leader dead and command passed down, the protagonist lies and tells the squad about orders to kill the President. They are forced to leave behind two members as one was injured; as they take shelter in another building, forces bombard their former hideout, killing them. The Capitol broadcasts a message celebrating the supposed deaths of the squad and the symbol, but the signal is hijacked mid-broadcast, allowing the rebel leader to introduce herself and declare the protagonist a martyr for the rebel cause.

As they are still far from the mansion, the team decides to venture into the sewers in order to avoid the traps, using a guide who used to work underground. The friend, remorseful over a death, believes they should die rather than endanger the rest of the squad again, but admits that memories are becoming clearer. The President, discovering the protagonist is still alive, unleashes a pack of monstrous reptilian Hybrid Mutants to hunt the protagonist down. In the ensuing battle, several squad members are killed. As the squad attempts to flee the sewers, a mutt grabs a friend as they cover the retreat, forcing the protagonist to use the holographic map's self-destruct to end the suffering and destroy the remaining mutts. They are attacked after reaching the underground railways, during which another trap kills another member. The few survivors eventually reach the surface and are led to a safehouse, where a former stylist hides them. While they all mourn the loss of their squad, the protagonist confesses to lying about the orders to kill the President, and as a result of the lie, the rest of the squad are dead. The squad reveal that they knew this all along, but played along because they trusted the protagonist. The friend comforts the protagonist, saying that if the President is killed, it will avenge the deaths of everyone who has died because of him. That night, two friends discuss their relationship, with one stating they think the other has won over the protagonist, but the other thinks the opposite. One eventually remarks that deciding which one the protagonist can't live without is the protagonist's problem.

The President announces that the rebels have penetrated deep and asks refugees to come to the mansion, offering them food and shelter. With the traps deactivated to allow passage, the protagonist and a friend disguise themselves and mingle with the refugees to gain access. Their covers are nearly blown when the rebels arrive and attack the forces, killing many civilians. In the ensuing chaos, the friend is captured; the protagonist marches towards the mansion and finds forces taking children to provide a human shield. As the rebels near the mansion, a SkyGlider flies by and drops Gold parachute into the crowd of children surrounding the mansion, which explode. Upon the explosion, a team of rebel medics attempt to help the injured, among whom is the protagonist's sister. Shocked to see the sister on the battlefield, the protagonist heads towards her, but just as the sister is seen a second round of bombs go off, killing the sister and badly injuring the protagonist.

Upon recovering, the protagonist learns that the Capitol has been conquered by the rebels, and that the President has been captured. The protagonist confronts the imprisoned President, who claims that the rebel leader masterminded the child-bombings in order to turn remaining supporters against him; the rebel leader has thus played both the President and the protagonist because they were both too focused on destroying each other to see the endgame. When accused of lying, the President calmly reminds of a promise to always be truthful to each other. Suspicious, the protagonist realizes that the bombs resembled a trap that had been worked on earlier. When confronting the friend, the friend remorsefully confesses that it may have been their design and apologizes for failing to protect the family; unable to fully forgive, the protagonist says goodbye.

Later, the protagonist attends a meeting with the rebel leader and the other surviving victors. The leader proposes having one final edition of the Hunger Games with the children of the Capitol as retribution for the previous games, as an alternative to exterminating most of the Capitol's population as war criminals. Some vote no, while others vote yes. Realizing that the President was right about the leader's ambitions and ruthlessness, the protagonist votes in favor of the motion, which gains the leader's trust; another follows the lead. The protagonist is awarded the opportunity to execute the President.

At the execution, which is being held before the whole nation, the protagonist faces the President once again. As the bow is readied, the two make eye contact, and the President gives one last smile. The protagonist silently agrees, and instead shoots the arrow into the rebel leader's heart. While the President is overcome by an angry mob, the protagonist attempts to commit suicide by consuming a poison pill, but is stopped by the friend. Although initially imprisoned, the protagonist is pardoned for the crime and is advised to return home until things settle down.

The protagonist returns home to recover from the traumatic ordeal, where they are eventually joined by the friend, who has fully recovered memories and love. After an initial period of depression, the protagonist is eventually able to release grief over the sister's death. A Commander is elected the new President, and the protagonist, the friend, and another bond over shared trauma. They learn that one friend has become a military commander elsewhere, and another has given birth to a child. The protagonist and the friend slowly grow back together, and the protagonist eventually admits love.

Years later, the protagonist and the friend are shown to have two children. As an infant child wakes up from a nightmare the protagonist reminisces about recurring nightmares still suffered from and explains playing a game where lists of all the good things seen someone do are made. It is noted that while the game has grown tired over the years, there are much worse games to play.