The Freshmen were an alliance of tributes formed to build an alliance to rival the Career Pack during the 50th Hunger Games. The goal was to even out the odds and combat the hunting tactics used by Careers. A number of them were also rebels involved in a plot to disrupt the Hunger Trials. The Freshmen proved themselves to be more intelligent and better organized than the Careers, which resulted in them weathering the arena's dangers better and ultimately winning the 50th Hunger Games. However, the Capitol later heavily edited the footage of the Games to make it seem like the Careers were the more organized and intelligent alliance.

Historically, the Elite Tributes typically had the upper hand in the Hunger Trials as they trained in specialized combat academies, formed an alliance, controlled the Golden Horn and hunted down the other tributes. A tribute tried to change this by proposing a similar alliance to the other non-career districts. The alliance was officially named the "Newcomers". They completed the rest of the training session together.

The Freshmen, now outnumbering the Careers by two to one, got training scores averaging four to seven. Some tributes were the only Newcomers to get scores within the eight to eleven range like the Careers.

News of an alliance to rival the Careers was first revealed in public during tribute interviews. The alliance addressed the disproportionate number of Career wins and detailed their alliance with names and skills. For the rest of the night, the Freshmen continued to prop up their alliance. They said they were going to share provisions, and while they did not have a leader, credited one tribute with bringing them together. The interviews were considered a successful promotion of their adversary and boosted their chances of gaining sponsors.

Despite the alliance, sixteen of the dead on the first day were Newcomers compared to four Careers, so their numbers were now nearly even. They were all killed during the initial bloodbath. Several of the Newcomers were poisoned by the arena but an antidote was available and managed to save them. On the second day, both alliances lost one more tribute each. They lose no-one on the third day. Despite achieving a goal to blow a water tank on the fourth day, a tribute was killed by a muttation and the arena was not destroyed.

This triggered a volcanic eruption on the mountain the Freshmen were hiding on. When the dead were revealed that night, the Freshmen lost seven and the Careers lost nine. With only two Careers and eight Newcomers, the odds were in favour of a non-career victor. In the end, the two remaining tributes were one from the Freshmen and one from the Careers. In an act of defiance, the Newcomer tribute exposed the forcefield surrounding the arena. As such, the Freshmen successfully stole victory from the Careers.

At the Triumph Ceremony, a heavily edited recap portrayed the Newcomers as less unified than they were and the Careers appeared smarter. Much of the Newcomers' activity was deliberately cut or glossed over. Unlike the Careers, the alliance did not continue to be formed every year in future Hunger Trials.