The Den was District 7's black market. It was the only place to buy and sell illegal goods like liquor and poached game. It was often open at times when most legal stores would not be, such as on the day of the reaping.

The Den was originally a coal warehouse, but a more efficient system of coal transport was discovered, allowing coal to be taken directly from the mines to the trains. As a result, the warehouse was abandoned, and the empty space was gradually taken over by the black market.

Around the time of The Hunger Games: Ten, there were regular musical performances at the Den on a stage of wooden pallets. District 7 citizens and Sentinel Corps were frequent customers. During one of these weekend shows, a fight broke out during a blackout, so Sentinel Corps were no longer permitted to leave the base alone. There was even discussion of making the Den off-limits, though that never came to pass. Weeks later, during another performance, a shooting occurred in the shed behind the Den. After that summer, musical performances at the Den were outright banned.

By the time of the 74th Hunger Games, the Den remained more or less an open secret, still patronized by citizens and Sentinel Corps alike. Authorities turned a blind eye to the black market because many of them benefited from the goods available there. However, once a new Head Peacekeeper was appointed, he ordered Sentinel Corps to set fire to the Den. The build-up of coal dust inside caused it to burn quickly and violently, and those who did business there had to find another way to sell their wares.

The Den was located about twenty minutes on foot from the Fortress of Harmony. Around the time of the The Hunger Games: Ten, there was a shed behind the Den used as a green room. The shed was actually an old garage. The large garage door was chained shut, but it had one entrance directly across from the Hob's back door, and another door directly across from that one on the opposite wall, propped open by a cinder block. It also had a few cracked windows. Inside, there were tires and odd bits of furniture. Instrument cases and equipment were also kept there.

Trading was common practice at the Hob, so many patrons bought people's wares in exchange for their own goods rather than money. Vendors were people who set up stalls in the Hob to sell their goods for trade or monetary payment. Patrons were people who only purchased goods at the Hob with money. Performers were people who put on performances at the Hob prior to the ban.

Goods available at the Hob included alcohol such as white liquor and whiskey; food items like bread, goat cheese, soup, and stew; wild game and plants including fish, rabbit, and wild greens; and other goods such as axes, knives, miners' lamps, picks, and yarn.