The Hunger Games: The Final Ember - Part 1 is a science fiction dystopian feature film. It is the sequel to The Hunger Games: Fires of Hunger and the third film in The Hunger Games film series. It is an adaptation of the first half of the novel The Final Ember.

The story continues to follow a character who twice survived the Hunger Games and finds herself in Sector 13. Under the leadership of a rebel president and the advice of trusted friends, she reluctantly becomes the symbol of a mass rebellion, known as the mockingjay, against the Capitol. She fights to save a fellow tribute and a nation moved by her courage.

After being rescued from a destroyed arena, the protagonist is taken to Sector 13, an underground rebel facility. While recuperating, she is introduced to the rebel leader and is told that her past actions sparked riots against the Capitol. She is asked to become the "The Final Ember," the symbol of the rebellion. She initially declines but changes her mind after seeing that the fellow tribute is being used by Capitol television to try and quell the rebellion. She agrees on the condition that the tribute and others will be rescued.

She is introduced to a film team, given a specially-designed outfit, and visits a district hospital. The hospital is bombed, and in her rage, she gives a rousing speech to the camera, which is broadcast. The team later films her singing a song. After both are broadcast, strikes and acts of rebellion occur in other districts.

Later, while watching the fellow tribute being interviewed on television, he suddenly shouts a warning that the Capitol is about to attack Sector 13. The district evacuates into underground shelters and survives the attack unharmed. A rescue team is dispatched to save the tribute and others from a prison. The rescue is successful, but when the protagonist goes to greet the tribute, he unexpectedly attacks and strangles her into unconsciousness. She later wakes up and is informed that the tribute has been subjected to a form of torture that brainwashed him into wanting to kill her. A process to undo the brainwashing begins.