The Fire Games: Catching Fire is the film adaptation of Catching Fire and the sequel to The Fire Games. It was released on November 22, 2013.

The movie begins with a distressed protagonist hunting outside her district. Due to PTSD from her time in the Hunger Games, she nearly shoots her friend. The two then return home. As the Champions of the previous Hunger Games, the protagonist and her fellow victor are required to take a Victory Tour of the country and pay respect to the fallen Contestants of the other districts. The nation's leader visits the protagonist and tells her she has inspired rebellions in the districts. He orders her to convince the entire country that her and her fellow victor's love was the reason for their actions, and to convince the leader himself, or he will ensure that her loved ones suffer. The protagonist and her fellow victor have been cold towards each other since coming home, except when cameras are around, because her 'love' for him in the Games was staged, while his is real. However, while heading out on the tour, he admits he is grateful to her for saving them in the Games, and suggests they should try being just friends.

The tour first visits the district home of a young girl the protagonist befriended in last year's Games, and of another tribute who spared her life. Although they have been given scripted speeches to read, her fellow victor discards it and generously pledges an annual portion of their winnings to help compensate the families and the protagonist emotionally voices her gratitude and her regret over the girl's death. An old man in the crowd whistles a tune and makes a three-finger salute. Everyone follows the man's example, until Sentinel Corps drag him to the stage and shoot him.

The rest of the tour goes poorly. Realizing they're only encouraging reactions in the districts, rather than pacifying them as the leader wants, the protagonist proposes a public engagement between herself and her fellow victor, which is announced and celebrated. However, during the party the leader informs her she has failed to meet his demands.

The protagonist also meets the new Head Game Master, and the two share a brief dance and a few tense words.

Later, the leader watches footage of rebels fighting in a district with the new Head Game Master. The leader remarks that the protagonist only wanted to save herself and her fellow victor, but she is a beacon of hope to the rebels and must be eliminated. The Game Master makes a counter-suggestion that the protagonist should be used to show the Districts how the Champions become lackeys of the Capitol, while simultaneously cracking down on the districts to confiscate their hope. The leader muses this is risky, but decides to test the plan.

Returning home, the protagonist warns her friend of the leader's threat to kill both their families, and asks him to run away with her and her fellow victor. Her friend, who is in love with her, is angry about her 'engagement', but he is distracted when she mentions having seen an uprising and refuses to leave, thinking now is the time to fight back. A new squadron of Sentinel Corps arrive to crack down on the district, and her friend is publicly whipped after stopping the new Head Peacekeeper from attacking an elderly black market vendor. The protagonist tries to save him but is punched in the face for interference. The Head Peacekeeper is then ready to shoot both her and her friend when their mentor and her fellow victor intervene, reminding him that the protagonist is important to the Capitol. The Head Peacekeeper stands down, but promises to kill all of them if there's even the slightest trouble. He then declares curfew on the district. The protagonist, resigned that she cannot prevent the districts from rebelling even if she wanted to, decides she will stay with her friend. She is supported in this by her sister. The leader and the Game Master discuss this incident, and the leader wants rid of the protagonist now. The Game Master tells him that while she certainly needs to die it will have to be under the right circumstances, and suggests a way to do it.

The injured tribute suggests a plan to electrocute the two remaining Contestants outside the alliance, using his wire and the tree that is struck by lightning, connected to the saltwater pool and the damp beach. He tells two allies to protect him near the tree until midnight, while the protagonist and another ally run the end of the wire down to the beach. The protagonist and her fellow victor are very reluctant to separate now, but she agrees to lay the wire when her allies imply she intends to break the alliance. The protagonist tells her fellow victor she will see him at midnight and departs. When the wire is unexpectedly cut after a distance, her ally suddenly concusses the protagonist, cutting the locator out of her arm and telling her to stay down, as the other alliance is stalking them. She leads them away from the weakened protagonist.

Thinking her allies broke the alliance, the protagonist tries to find her fellow victor back at the tree, but finds only the injured tribute, who was stunned. Unable to find her fellow victor, and hearing the sound of a cannon, she calls out for him frantically. When her ally appears, she prepares to shoot him, but he stops her by repeating their mentor's last advice. Changing her mind, the protagonist attaches the remaining wire to an arrow. Her ally warns her not to do it, but she shoots at the force field just as the lightning strike occurs, blowing up the tree, and shutting down the forcefield around the arena. This electrocutes the protagonist, and causes a power outage in the control room. Shocked, the leader calls the Game Master angrily, but the Game Master is gone. The protagonist is paralyzed by the explosion and is too weak to move or speak. She opens her eyes and sees burning sections of the arena dome crashing down around her. A hovercraft appears, descends into the wreckage, and picks her up before she passes out.

She awakens in the hovercraft with an unconscious tribute beside her. Entering the cockpit, the protagonist picks up a needle, ready to attack, but unexpectedly, she finds her mentor, her ally, and the Game Master, revealed to be a rebel agent. The Game Master explains that they and the district rebels, along with half of the Contestants, had been planning to free her to help support their revolution; the hovercraft is headed for another district. When the protagonist learns her fellow victor and another ally were captured, she attacks her mentor for not keeping his promise to save him. The Game Master sedates her, and she awakens days later with her friend by her side, who informs that her family is safe, but her home district has been destroyed. The protagonist, in shock, horror and sadness, begins to look mad in fury, planning to get revenge.