The Central City of Panem is a technologically advanced metropolis and home to the nation's elites. The Central City is also the colloquial name for the ruling regime of Panem. As the seat of power in Panem, this city rules the nation's thirteen districts (twelve after The Dark Days). The Hunger Games are held within its city limits (protected by anti-aircraft guns and multiple launch rocket systems, or MLRS's).

Prior to the Second Rebellion, the Capitol was a tyrannical dictatorship and held total political and economic dominance over Panem, enforcing its rule through an army of Sentinel Corps, capital punishment, propaganda, the fear of nuclear devastation, and the Hunger Games. It is also the only major city mentioned in the trilogy. The Central City is known for the luxurious, decadent lifestyles enjoyed by its citizens. Following the events of The Final Ember, Panem is transformed into a constitutional republic.

It is located in the western, mountainous section of former North America. The Rockies also act as a natural barrier and have served the Capitol well, allowing their air force to bomb the rebels who attempted to invade the city during the Dark Days.

Much is unknown about when the Capitol was first established. Eventually over time, the most affluent families moved over to the Capitol. Citizens from the districts were still eligible for citizenship within the advanced city up to right after the Dark Days. At this early point of the country's history, citizens of the Capitol could freely move throughout the districts.

The catalyst for the Dark Days is unknown, but it was a civil war between the districts and the Capitol spanning three years. It ended 74 years before the original trilogy. 
Although much of what transpired is unknown, the Capitol was subjected to numerous air raids, and rebel forces caused routine blackouts. The Central City was under siege for the final two years of the war as rebels halted food supplies to the city. This led to mass starvation and widespread poverty. 
Near the end of the rebellion, the Capitol had managed a victory against the rebels when they attempted to scale the mountains that serve as natural protection for the city. The Central City's Air Force was able to kill off a large number of ground troops and destroy large amounts of equipment, giving them the upper hand in the rebellion. 
The war became stagnant 3 years into the conflict, as both Sector 13 and the Central City held their nuclear arsenals pointed at one another. However, both parties diplomatically agreed to sign a peace treaty to officially end the conflict. This allowed the Central City to regain full control of the other twelve districts, and Sector 13 to secede from Capitol rule, establishing its status as an independent nation. However, this decision was unbeknownst to the rest of nation, as the Central City publicly announced that Sector 13 had been annihilated by the Central City itself, and was left radioactive and uninhabitable. Even 75 years later, the Central City continued using such propaganda to intimidate the districts and discourage rebellion. 
After the rebellion, the Hunger Games was announced, serving as an annual event to remind the Districts of the cost of their rebellion. After the end of the Dark Days, Panem began its reconstruction period to redevelop the country, especially the Central City.