Jace was the male tribute from District 12 in the 74th Hunger Games. During the Games, he killed another tribute and spared a different tribute's life.

He is one of the strongest tributes that year. In his individual assessment, he receives a high training score. During his interview, he only answers in curt, single-word answers and remains surly. This, coupled with his physical appearance, causes him to become a favorite.

He survives the initial Golden Horn bloodbath. In the arena, he finds a field of wheat. It is surmised that he uses the field to his advantage by using the wheat for food and a source of cover. The other tributes know where he is, but view the field as a hazard since he would be at a major advantage if they were to attack. Hence, they avoid him.

He comes out of hiding during a feast to claim a backpack. While at the Golden Horn, he overhears a tribute threaten and taunt another about a death. Furious, he attacks, pulling the tribute away and yelling. He accuses the tribute of the killing, which is truthfully denied. He then kills the tribute. He then asks what was meant about an alliance. Upon being told that he had sung to the deceased as she died, he states that he will let the tribute go once, but that he will owe nothing after that. He then tells the tribute to run, as another tribute is approaching. As he leaves, he takes not only his district's backpack, but another's as well.

After the feast, a storm forms over the arena. His death is later signaled. It is recognized that a creature made to resemble him could leap very high. In another version, he is killed by creatures.

During a subsequent tour, he is commemorated. It is stated that he was only spoken to one time, just long enough for him to spare a life. He was not known, but was always respected for his power and for his refusal to play the Games on anyone's terms but his own. The other strong tributes wanted him to team up with them from the beginning, but he would not do it.

In the Games, his main tactic is to occupy a portion of the arena and seldom leave its boundaries. He chooses to enter a field of tall wheat, which is presumed to be because he views the area as a source of food, shelter, and safety. It is revealed that the other strong tributes had not wanted to attack him while he was there since he would be at a major advantage.

He is a physical giant, being the largest tribute that year. He rivals another tribute in terms of brute strength, and is regarded as a "physical wonder". It is noted that he looks even bigger and more well-fed during the Games. Being from a poor district, it is likely he did not get much to eat. In another version, he is shorter than other tributes but still has a stronger build than the others.

He shows mercy when they meet in the arena, even at a time when he has a clear advantage, as he believes that he owes a debt for an alliance with his young district partner. Through this action, he is shown to have a certain degree of honor and dignity, as well as a caring and gentle side.

Despite his kind-hearted nature, he can be aggressive and vengeful, as seen when he brutally murders a tribute for taunting over a death. Additionally, he prefers solitude and does not make any alliances, demonstrating his preference to work alone. He pointedly refuses to join the group of strong tributes.

Being as strong and huge as he is, he is seen as a threat by the other tributes. He commands respect and is feared by virtually everyone in the arena. Being from his district, his knowledge of plants presumably helps him survive the Games.

He takes a shining to his district partner. Her death sends him into a fit of anger and grief, and causes him to enact vengeance. His relationship with his partner drives him to spare a life after being told that she had sung to his partner as she had died.

He saves a tribute when she is pinned, killing the assailant before asking about his partner. He is touched that the tribute had taken care of the young girl, and he feels that he owes her. As a result, he spares the tribute's life and warns her to run. He also takes a backpack, which allows the tribute to escape. This act likely results in his death, which both shocks and saddens the tribute, as she had liked him and wanted him to win.

His name comes from threshing, a method of harvesting grain that involves flailing the plant around.