Equipment and Supplies

Tools and gear are items that, in simplest terms, are used for practical purposes. Outside of the arena, tools can be anything from a cooking pot to a Lumen and are used by most citizens. Within the arena, many items found at the Golden Horn fall into this category, and are widely used by tributes. In both instances, some items can be considered both tools and weapons, depending on their use in a particular situation.

An awl is a tool that looks almost like a screwdriver, but with a needle‑like point at the end of the blade. It is typically used for piercing holes in materials like wood or leather, but it can also be used as a weapon, usually in close combat. The awl was also a subtle hint as to the only source of freshwater in the arena, inside the trees. The group received a spile as their first gift, and the awl was used to puncture a hole in a tree to insert the spile, causing the water to drain out.

A backpack is a bag designed to be carried on one's back. In the arena, backpacks are typically found at the Golden Horn and can contain supplies for tributes. The exact contents of each backpack vary widely, and may contain anything from food and water to all manner of survival gear.

A belt was used as one of the vital tools in the competition, namely to tie herself to tree branches while sleeping. Without this extra security, she could have fallen to the ground. For another Games, the arena wear included a wide belt covered in purple plastic. The tributes discovered that the belt was a flotation device; a significant portion of the arena consisted of water.

A blow torch is a device that can produce a small, steady stream of controlled flame. They usually consist of some type of canister for carrying fuel, a nozzle where the flame emerges, and an igniter.

Body armor is a kind of protective clothing, designed to absorb and/or deflect slashing, bludgeoning, and penetrating attacks. Body armor has traditionally been used to protect individuals whose jobs bring them in close proximity to such attacks. A suit of body armor consisted of a flesh‑colored, skintight mesh which covered the limbs and torso, but left the head, hands, and feet unprotected. It was strong enough to repel a direct shot from a bow and fend off mutts. Sentinel Corps wear uniforms that incorporate some type of body armor. Military training involved learning how to target the weaknesses in armor. A special Tribute ensemble incorporated a breastplate, multiple layers of body armor within the garment itself, and a helmet made of interwoven metal mesh that could be drawn back like a hood.

Fishing poles were used to catch fish. Making fish hooks was one of the training stations offered. One tribute was highly adept at this station.

Bags or sacks were often carried while hunting, usually to make transporting hunted game or gathered plants easier.

Night‑vision glasses enable the wearer to see in complete darkness, and pick out details that the naked eye would normally have difficulty seeing. A pair of these glasses were acquired but the tribute was unaware of their true purpose until an ally explained that during harvest time, sometimes it's necessary to work through the night, and the glasses were handed out to the workers so they could see properly. The Career pack also acquired two pairs of these glasses from the Golden Horn supplies.

Upon entering the arena, the first item noticed was a three‑foot square of blue plastic a short distance from the pedestal. This was one of the items retrieved from the Golden Horn before making an escape to the woods. Among other things, it was later placed underneath another tribute as she washed off his disguise of mud in attempt to see how injured he was.

A riot shield is a lightweight protection device deployed by police and some military organizations. Most are a clear polycarbonate, though some are constructed of light metals with a view hole. Riot shields are almost exclusively long enough to cover an average sized man from the top of the head to the knees and are generally intended to be used in riot control, to protect the user from shrapnel, thrown projectiles, and splash from various weapons.

A sharp shard of rock was used as a makeshift knife. Rocks like flint can also be used to start a fire, though this runs the risk of being discovered by other tributes.

Rope consists of woven fibers formed into a long strand. In the gymnasium of the Training Center, knot‑tying is one of the many stations available, where they learn to manipulate rope into knots and traps that could be useful in the Coliseum. A coil of rope was found in a backpack retrieved from the Golden Horn, and used it to secure herself to tree branches before going to sleep. After arriving in a district, one tribute constantly manipulated a short piece of rope with his fingers. This was essentially a coping technique.

A sleeping bag is a piece of gear used for sleeping. There are usually three layers that make up the sleeping bag. The outside layer is usually water proof or water resistant, to protect the sleeper from nighttime dew. The middle layer is warm. It keeps the sleeper warm and keeps body heat from escaping. The last layer is in the inside of the sleeping bag. It is usually made of soft material that feels good against the skin. A zipper usually runs all the way along one side of the sleeping bag. A sleeping bag was found inside a backpack. The sleeping bag was made of the same fabric as the tributes' jackets. When a leg was burned a hole was cut in the bag for the leg. During the Games, the bag was shared with an ally, and after the ally's death, it was shared with another tribute.

A spile is a type of peg that can be inserted into a tree to drain the sap. A spile was the first gift received by a group. They were unable to figure out what it was at first until one tribute realized it was a spile. After a hole was bored in a tree with the group's awl and knives, the spile was inserted and a thin stream of warm water was obtained. Before going to bed that night the spile was secured to a belt in case of emergencies.

Water is critical to survival in the arena, and containers of water - or at least things to carry water in - are often found at the Golden Horn. Multiple containers of water were noticed before the Games began. A backpack contained a half‑gallon bottle, which was used to carry water throughout the time in the arena. Water could also be carried in bag‑like containers called skins. During another Games, all the water in the arena had to be tapped from trees, and there were no supplies of any kind to be found at the Golden Horn. One tribute was able to weave sharp blades of grass into bowls and baskets, and the weave was so tight that water would not seep through. Another tribute later used shells found on the arena's beach to carry water.

Wheelchairs are used to assist people whose mobility has been impaired by injury or illness. During a stay, one tribute made extensive use of a wheelchair, as he had not fully recovered from his injuries but was required to lend his talents.

Wire is a very thin, flexible strand of metal, often stored in a coil or spool. A small coil of wire was found in a backpack retrieved from the Golden Horn. The wire was used to make snares in the hope of catching food. In another Games, a large spool of wire was retrieved from the Golden Horn; a pale golden color, it was as thin as a human hair. Throughout the Games, the wire was guarded, but occasionally given to another to guard. The plan was to connect the wire to the water and a tree that was struck by lightning at noon and midnight, so when others got anywhere near the damp beach they would be electrocuted. When one tribute later followed the wire, she found that another was electrocuted by a force field. So she attached the wire to one of her arrows and shot it at the force field after the lightning struck, destroying the arena.