The Training Hub, also known as the Tribute Center, is a building located in the middle of the Capitol. Upon arriving to the city in preparation for the Hunger Games, it is where tributes live and train. The center has an open roof, which includes a garden and provides an excellent view of the Capitol. It is also enclosed by a force field to thwart any attempt at suicide.

The tributes and their entourages each stay on a floor corresponding with number of their district, which are reached via glass-sided elevators that move at rapid speeds. The Training Hub apartments feature luxury accommodations, including gourmet meals, high-tech showers, and a huge array of clothing to choose from. The apartments are apparently quite large and contain enough rooms to house the tributes' mentor and escort, and possibly their stylists and prep teams as well, as the latter are a regular presence in the apartment before the Games commence.

Avoxes also live in the apartments, and their sole duty is to serve the inhabitants and tend to every person's needs. An Mute Servant can be a citizen of any district, as well as the Capitol, who has committed an offense and has been transferred into custody. The punishment for their crime is cutting out their tongue so that they are unable to speak. Inhabitants of the apartment may speak to Avoxes to give them orders, but any other communication is strictly forbidden.

Once training for the Games begins, breakfast and dinner are served in the apartments, while lunch is taken in a room off the gymnasium in the basement. On the last day of training and following individual sessions with the Gamemakers, tributes receive their training scores on the televisions in their apartments.

Beneath the apartments lies an underground gymnasium where the tributes prepare and practice for the challenges they will face in the arena. The space is filled with training stations which teach a variety of skills, including knot tying, identifying edible plants and insects, camouflage, and practicing with many types of weapons. Experts are on hand at each station to instruct and serve as training partners to the tributes, as they are forbidden to fight with each other before the Games begin.

The clothing each tribute wears is determined by their stylist, although each has a cloth square with their district number pinned to their shirt.

Contestants attend training three days in a row, beginning at 10 A.M. At 10:00 sharp, the head trainer and overseer, explains the rules of the gymnasium and its training stations. The trainees are reminded that they cannot fight with each other before the Games, but if they want to spar, they can request to practice with a trainer. The Career tributes typical go directly to the stations with the most deadly weapons when training starts in an attempt to intimidate the other tributes. Afterwards, all the tributes eat lunch together in a dining room attached to the gym. Alliances are often formed during this time after the tributes have seen each other's abilities in training and have a chance to talk.

After a period of time, the tributes show the Gamemakers what they are capable of, choosing a particular skill they excel at, and are scored from 1 to 12, 1 being very low and 12 being almost impossible to achieve.