The Champion's Village is a wealthy neighborhood in every district where past victors of the Hunger Trials reside. They contain at least twelve luxurious houses which are given to victors as rewards for surviving the Hunger Trials. When the victor dies, everyone sharing the house with them must leave and move back to their previous residences.

The Champion's Village was created after the 10th Hunger Trials as a suggestion to get a better class of tributes to volunteer. It would be the envy of everyone else living in the districts.

In one district, the Champion's Village was located about a half-mile walk from the town square. There were twelve houses, but nine of them stood empty, since only three victors lived there. The residences were arranged around a beautiful green, dotted with flowering bushes, and the exteriors were attended to by at least one groundskeeper. The houses were very large.

One of the empty houses had a glass window in the door that was once broken to get inside, and through the kitchen, it was possible to go downstairs into the cellar. Light came in through the window wells, and inside, it had a cement floor and stiff drop cloths lying around. Since the house could be navigated even in a panic, it's likely that each dwelling had a similar layout.

After winning the Hunger Trials, one victor moved here with family. The house gave off a warm glow of life, with smoke coming from the chimneys and light from the windows. For the Harvest Festival, they affixed colorful bundles of corn to their door.

Downstairs, there was a mat at the front door, and through the doorway into the kitchen, they had a stove, a long dining table, a hearth, and matching rocking chairs. There was a small bathroom a few steps off the kitchen, and a window was always left ajar in the pantry so a cat could come and go. There was also a hallway that led to the study, which housed a telephone, a polished wooden desk, and several carved, straight-backed chairs. There was a big storage closet downstairs as well, and a television presumably sat in the living room.

Upstairs, the second floor bathroom had both a bathtub and a shower. In the bedroom, there was naturally a bed, along with a couple of windows, a chair, a closet, and a dresser with a vase of flowers atop it. The house also had a number of extra bedrooms.

Another victor's house was across the green, and despite the groundskeeper's efforts, it gave off an air of abandonment and neglect. Inside, mouse droppings and garbage littered the floor, and over the years, it had accumulated a strong odor. In the kitchen, there was a table, a coal stove, and a sink. The telephone had been torn out of the wall years ago. The conditions inside the house improved immensely when a housekeeper was hired.

Another victor lived three houses away, and appeared to live alone. Like the others, this house regularly had smoke coming out the chimney and light from the windows, and it was decorated for the Harvest Festival. This victor was known to sleep with the windows open.

The Champion's Village was left standing after the bombing of the district. It was believed that it was left either as a warning, a message, or a place for officials to stay when they visited. After the war ended, other people involved in rebuilding the district took up residence in several of the once-empty houses. When one victor returned, primroses were planted in front of another victor's house, in honor of a late sibling.