Champions are tributes who have won previous Hunger Games. Because of this, they receive income for life, are given a special status in their districts, and are allowed to live in the wealthiest part of their district called the Champion's Village with their families. Despite the privileges they enjoy, their involvement in the Hunger Games lasts for a lifetime, and they are placed under strict surveillance to ensure that they do not encourage rebellion. Their primary duty as Triumphs is that they must mentor future tributes from their district through the Hunger Games.

Life as a Triumph
During the earliest Hunger Games, Triumphs were not given any specific importance or care. After winning and surviving their individual Games, they were generally sent back to their home districts and left to resume their old lives. It was only after a certain point that Triumphs were put into the spotlight, forcing them to take a bigger role in future Games. These new changes also gave Triumphs compensation and rewards for their victories.

Champions are often forced to put on false personas for the audience. They also adopt hobbies or talents they can be interviewed about.

The Triumph Tour (74th HG) occurs almost midway between the annual Hunger Games, and is held to keep the memory of the year's Games fresh in everyone's mind. They start in the highest numbered district and count down, skipping the Triumph's district and saving it for last. In each district, the Triumph gives a speech commemorating said district's fallen tributes, followed by a dinner with the district's leaders. Prior to returning to their resident district, the Triumph stops for an interview following up on their life after the Games. The Triumph Tour (74th HG) concludes with a huge feast for the Triumph's district where all the residents attend.

Most, if not all, of the Triumphs suffer from some form of post-traumatic stress as a result of their experiences in the Games.

Many Triumphs turn to alcohol or drugs after they have won their Games as a means of coping. These addictions stem from the traumatic experiences and memories of the Games, the demands that continue to be imposed on them, the death penalty on them or their families, and, for those who become mentors, having to train new tributes every year which more likely will end up dying.

Highly attractive and desirable Triumphs are often sexually trafficked.

The families of Triumphs can be used as leverage to force them to bend to the will of the authorities. The children of Triumphs are reaped to participate in the Hunger Games suspiciously often.

While a Triumph is not obligated to work as part of their district's industry, one of their primary duties is to serve as a mentor for future tributes. In this role, the mentor is to provide tactical advice on how to survive the Games, assess their pre-existing skills and talents and how best to display them during training and their interview, and serve as a lifeline for their tributes once the Games have started by attracting sponsors to finance sponsor gifts in the arena, such as food, medicine, supplies, and weapons. This last duty is one of the most crucial to their mentorship duties, as their relative success at attracting sponsors is dependent on the impression their tributes make during training and interviews and their performance in the Games themselves, which can have an enormous impact on whether their tribute dies or survives long enough to be crowned Triumph themselves.

While Triumphs are exempted from further eligibility in the reaping, this changed for a special edition of the Games. The special rule stipulated that, as a reminder to the rebels that even the strongest among them could not overcome the power of the authorities, the tributes would be selected from the existing pool of Triumphs. Thus, Triumphs across all districts were forced to participate in the Hunger Games for a second time.