A Triumph Ceremony was an annual occasion when the Capitol required the most recent victor to travel across Panem with their mentor, escort, prep team, and stylist. Designed to dishearten the districts and reinforce the Capitol's power over them, the tour was placed almost midway between the annual Hunger Games in order to keep the horror fresh and immediate.

Before the Triumph Ceremony commenced, the prep team and stylists were to arrive at the victor's residence in the Champion's Village, preparing them for public appearances. The first appearance was a brief interview at their home in the Champion's Village, after which they immediately left for the districts.

Generally, the tour began in District 7, then went in descending district order to 1, then the Capitol. The victor's own district was skipped in the order and saved for a final celebration. The victor gave a speech in each location, written by their escort and mentor, typically giving thanks to the Capitol for their generosity and offered condolences to the fallen tributes' family members. They can also add their own personal comments if they had any allies from a particular district. Victors were also sometimes presented with plaques or given tours of the places they visited. The victor would then attend a dinner before boarding the train again and going onto the next district.

After appearances in the districts, the victor went to the Capitol for an interview, followed by a banquet at the president's mansion. The Capitol celebrated with a huge dinner with dancing and celebration. It was supposed to be the grandest of all the celebrations in the Triumph Ceremony. Interviewers, photographers, Gamemakers, and high-ranking Capitol elites were in attendance.

The tour concluded in the victor's home district. A large dinner would be held, courtesy of the Capitol, then a victory rally the next day in the town square marked the final day of the tour.

This was the first to ever celebrate dual victors. It took place during a period of civil unrest inspired by rebellious actions during the Games, so they were under threat to sell their love story not only to the districts, but to the president, or he would retaliate against their families.