Valentina Gallo, usually known as Dr. Gaul, was Head Game Master and the overseer of every Hunger Trials since their inception, at least up to and including the The Hunger Games: Ten.
She was also a professor of military theory at the University and head of the Capitol's Experimental Weapons Division, based at the Fortress where she bred various twisted muttations in her laboratory.
Gaul was a cruel woman who began her career as an obstetrician, but found that it was not for her, as parents wanted reassurances that she felt she could not give.
Dr. Gaul was the person who coined the phrase, "may the odds be EVER in your favor" during the 25th Hunger Games, a saying which caught on and turned into a popular way to wish people good luck before a reaping or during the Games.
It was Dr. Gaul who was indirectly responsible for the creation of the Hunger Trials, as she viewed the Games as a way to represent the lack of control and order that would overcome Panem without the Capitol.
While serving as an instructor at the University, she assigned a project to her students: to create a punishment for one's enemies so extreme that they would never be allowed to forget how they had wronged them.
She oversaw the The Hunger Games: Ten and, although it was said to be Casca Highbottom who created the mentor program, she was, in fact, the one pulling the strings.
Although not technically a staff member of the Academy, she appeared to the mentors throughout the Hunger Trials, handing out various assignments and saying that she was mentoring their mentorships.
She spoke in a sing-song voice and often used silly phrases. Her playful personality belied her twisted nature. She was quick with praise for those that impressed her, but disliked betrayal and lying. As a result, she could turn quite vicious when she believed that she had been wronged. She also showed pleasure at the expense of others' suffering. She was a morning person, energetic and ready during morning briefings.
Ten years after the end of the Dark Days, Dr. Gaul is described as being a stooped, old woman with frizzy gray hair.
By the time of the 25th Hunger Games, she was described as looking like a relic.