Lena was one of two female tributes from District 12 who participated in the 50th Hunger Games.

Before the start of the games, she and the rest of her district initially hesitated to join an alliance. Their chariot during the Tribute Parade was crashed into by another district's chariot after the horses were startled. When they arrived at training, they were bandaged up.
At lunch during a day of training, they were bullied. She started crying so another tribute went over to befriend them but at first she recoiled in fear. She warmed up to him and apologized for a death. He assured her that he did not hold her district responsible for the chariot crash. He gave her a lunch box to make up for the one that was ruined. She and the others then decided to join the alliance and followed him back to the group.
While deciding on the name for the alliance, she felt like the suggestions were trying to be too tough. She thought they should pick one that showed they weren't trained from birth to win. She liked the suggestion of the Newcomers. She and the rest of her district stuck with him like glue. Her token was an old bicycle bell. Before the Games started, he told her he was leaving the alliance to survive on his own as he thought he was too dangerous for them to be around. He told her he would never hurt her.
When the Games started, she joined the rest of the alliance on the mountain. She very quickly realized everything in the arena was poisonous.
The games eventually came down to the final 3 from the alliance. They were against the two remaining opponents. One said that between them, one has to win. They then agreed that she would also be a good victor, so they should try and help find her. He later told her that the other said she would be a good victor, as she would be teaching a good lesson. After the other's death, he was determined to find her, and help her win, believing this was his final mission. He called out to her, and was able to locate her by the sound of her bicycle bell token.

On the last day in the arena, he hid a weak and starving her under a tree, while he attempted to retrieve dry kindling; it had rained the night prior, and most of the wood available was either too wet to ignite, or would smoke heavily. She pleaded with him not to leave her, but he promised her that he would not be far. He left her armed with a dart gun, loaded with a single poisoned dart. He planned to blow a hole in the Cornucopia, and take out an opponent, and then he would be killed, so she could be the victor. He returned after receiving a sponsor gift containing what he anticipated to be poisoned milk and an ornate picnic basket. He was met with the sight of a decapitated her. An opponent had decapitated her with an ax. When confronted, the opponent claimed she attacked, which was when he noticed a poison blow dart hanging harmlessly from the opponent's sleeve.
After winning the Games, he watched a recap, seeing the footage of her death, along with others, had been edited and altered.

She was a bone-thin little girl. Like the others in her district, she had rickety limbs and looked like she'd never seen daylight. She had a certain look. After she had suffered starvation for multiple days, she weighed very little.
She, along with the other tributes from her district, wore specific coveralls during the chariot rides.

She was a very kind and emotional young girl who was very trusting. She must have been quite intelligent, as it was assumed that she would quickly figure out everything in the arena was poisonous.

She first met another tribute during the first day of training. He comforted her after she was bullied and she took an instant liking to him for his kindness. He also told her that he did not a grudge against her and the other tributes from her district for a death. They formed a friendship and became part of an alliance.
During the Games, two others agreed that she would also make a good victor between the three of them. After one's death, he found and reunited with her, taking care of her and decided to kill himself and an opponent so she could be crowned the victor. When he proceeded to get firewood, she pleaded with him not to leave her, but he promised her that he would not be far, giving her a dart gun to defend herself. Unfortunately, she was killed, leaving him angry and devastated. He eventually managed to avenge her by killing the opponent which allowed him to win the Games.

Even though she finished third in the Hunger Games, the footage in a recap afterwards was heavily edited. She was heard screaming shortly after another's death, then shown to die before another tribute, who was already dead. This would have made her look like she finished fourth.