Feral wolf were mutations set loose on the tributes in the 74th Hunger Games.

Feral wolf were released into the arena on the seventeenth day of the Games, driving the three remaining tributes to the Cornucopia. One tribute fired an arrow into the pack, killing one before reaching the Cornucopia and climbing, since they could protect the others better off the ground. As another tribute climbed the Cornucopia's tail, an arrow was shot at the first mutt whose paws hit the metal, and that tribute was pulled up. The mutts appeared to strategize, gathering around the Cornucopia and then backing up to make room for one to leap onto the horn, landing about ten feet below the tributes. The tribute was horrified to realize this mutt resembled a fallen tribute, and after shooting it dead, recognized other fallen tributes' lookalikes in the pack.

The pack split into two groups, one on either side of the horn, and jumped up at the three tributes. One caught a tribute's leg in its jaws, tearing a hole in the calf and nearly dragging that tribute off the horn. However, the tribute managed to stab it to death and was pulled back up. Another tribute was noticed beginning to recover from a sprint to the Cornucopia and an arrow was nocked, but instead a mutt that resembled another fallen tribute was shot.

One tribute was weakened by blood loss, so another tribute held them in a headlock, cutting off their air as they stood near the Cornucopia's edge. It was pointed out that the archer couldn't kill the attacker without the other tribute being pulled down too. However, the weakened tribute drew an X on the back of the attacker's hand in their own blood, and an arrow was shot at this target. The attacker reflexively let go, and then was slammed into, sending them falling into the wolf pack below.

The fallen tribute fought off the wolves for about an hour, trying to make a way around the horn to the Cornucopia's tail to climb back up. They managed to kill a mutt on occasion, but eventually the pack overpowered them. However, body armor prevented them from being finished off, so the other two tributes had to listen to the suffering through the night until dawn came. At that point, the fallen tribute was shot with a final arrow as an act of mercy. The wolves then left the arena through a hole that opened up in the ground.

In a film adaptation, the mutts were designed in a control room. They were first seen when a hologram was shown for evaluation. They were inserted into the Games during an artificial night. The mutts killed a tribute before chasing the remaining three to the Cornucopia. The altercation between the tributes went similarly, but the fallen tribute was unable to fight the mutts, and was killed much sooner. Instead of exiting the arena through a hole in the ground, the mutts ran off into the woods.

Each wolf mutt resembled a tribute who had died in that year's Games, wearing a collar marked with a district number, and they had remarkably human eyes. The resemblance was so strong that one tribute wondered if they had been made using the tributes' real eyes. However, another tribute was more concerned with the idea that the mutts had been given the tributes' brains or memories. They wondered if they were programmed specifically to remember their faces and despise them, and worried that the tributes they'd actually killed might have believed they were avenging their own deaths.

In terms of abilities, the mutts were able to balance on their hind legs, jump very high, and had four-inch, razor-sharp claws. They could also gesture to one another like humans would.

In the film, the wolf mutts held no resemblance to the tributes. They were large, bulky dogs with sparse fur, short muzzles, and powerful jaws, and they ran on all fours.

Five wolf mutts were associated with fallen tributes during the attack. They included one with silky waves of blond fur and green eyes, a small one with red fur and amber eyes, one with ashen hair and hazel eyes, the smallest mutt with dark, glossy fur and huge brown eyes, and one that jumped very high.

Four mutts were killed by one tribute: two unidentified, and the two associated with specific fallen tributes. Another tribute killed the unknown mutt that bit them, and the fallen tribute managed to kill at least one more while fighting for life on the ground. They killed at least six mutts altogether, but there could have been as many as 21 wolves total in the pack, since it was believed they were all of the other tributes.

In the novel, the wolf mutts never actually killed anyone, but they mauled one tribute horribly and wounded another to the point that a leg amputation was needed. In the film, they killed a tribute, and they did not attack another tribute for long before a mercy killing occurred.