Academy Adventures is an officially licensed game created to promote a film.

The game was launched on September 17th, 2023. Players are able to enter the game and explore a digital recreation of the Academy; however, initially only the building's exterior and the plaza around it were available. There was a several-day countdown to registration on September 20th. The game then displayed another countdown to the start of classes on October 1st.

The game's missions are split into quarters like a school year, with players having to complete registration before proceeding to the first quarter and onwards. By completing missions, players can unlock cosmetic items.

The game has two main types of activities: scavenger hunts and quick time events (QTEs). In a scavenger hunt, the player explores the school and collects items by walking or running through them. In a QTE, the player has to press a button or key at the right time.

Students register, claiming allegiance to one of two teams, before being sent on a scavenger hunt around the campus. Each player has to gather 25 of each collectible item.

The first quarter involves helping a character get an essay onto a dean's desk by collecting keys, placing the paper, and writing a name.
The second quarter involves helping a character collect leftover food from the cafeteria by collecting banners and using them as a distraction.
The third quarter involves helping a character locate books in the library by collecting books from around the school and then from cabinets without being seen.
The fourth quarter involves helping mend a ripped graduation robe by collecting sewing items, guiding a character through a crowd, and sewing the gown. Lastly, the player throws a graduation cap.

Early registration entitled players to earn a limited edition backpack. Each subsequent quarter offers players a choice between two possible rewards upon completion of that section's mission. The fourth quarter graduation caps were also available in a limited quantity.

In addition to cosmetic items, players can also earn badges, which function as achievements.