An Avox is a mute servant who had their tongue cut out in lieu of execution as a punishment for being a rebel, traitor, deserter or criminal. They spent their lives as the lowest class, permanently serving as slaves.

Most Avoxes were tasked to occupations seen as undesirable. They were enslaved as domestic servants by the government as well as by private citizens. Most were seen waiting on tributes. Other Avoxes were enslaved as civil servants, charged with the day-to-day maintenance. They worked shifts in the sewer network and also operated in other lower level positions within waste management.

As an enslaved class of people stripped of all their human rights, Avoxes were subjected to many abuses. They were subject to later being killed in any manner for any reason and at any time, as being made an Avox is tantamount to capital punishment. Avoxes are unable to speak, due to their tongues being cut out. Citizens are not permitted to talk to them unless giving them an order. The Avoxes that worked underground never saw sunlight, and had to navigate dangerous pods everyday just to do their jobs.

Avoxes constitute the lowest social class. They serve a punishment tantamount to execution, and are a stark reminder that even citizens can lose all social standing for committing any offense. They are the ultimate victims of cruelty, subject to a life of silence, servitude, and dehumanization. Their suffering represents the most extreme form of oppression. Citizens were not permitted to speak to Avoxes unless giving them an order. The term Avox was also nearly synonymous with muteness or mutism. Despite this, Avoxes were able to communicate through gestures such as nodding, pointing, or writing.

The Avoxes' physical appearances were not markedly different from those of their lives as free citizens, with the exception of their tongues, which were removed so they could no longer speak. However, they could be recognized by their distinctive way of swallowing, and those enslaved at the Training Center wore white uniform tunics.

The term "Avox" is derived from the Ancient Greek prefix meaning "not, without" and the Latin word for "voice." In other words, "avox" means "voiceless."