A backpack, in its simplest form, is a cloth sack carried on a person's back and secured with two straps that go over the shoulders.
In the Hunger Games, backpacks were typically found at the Cornucopia at the start of the competition. Tributes used them to carry and store provisions, tools, and other items needed to survive in the arena.

In one Hunger Games, a tribute was able to secure weapons and a backpack of supplies before most of the tributes had even stepped off their plates. Another tribute obtained a backpack containing a blowgun with darts, a bowl, and some dried beef. Also included in one backpack were charcoal tablets to treat the arena's poisons while another backpack contained a bottle of an actual antidote.
After a kill, a tribute took a first aid kit that was found amongst the supplies, possibly from a backpack.
After killing other tributes, two tributes found and took their backpacks. The two also took the backpacks of other tributes when they were killed.

In another Hunger Games, a tribute obtained a backpack at the Cornucopia, which she had to fight over. However, the other tribute was killed during the struggle. Another tribute then threw a knife, but it was able to be blocked with the backpack and the tribute fled, gaining a knife as a first weapon since the backpack did not contain one. Nonetheless, it was essential to survival. It contained one thin black sleeping bag that reflects body heat, a pack of crackers, a pack of dried beef strips, a bottle of iodine, a box of wooden matches, a bit of coiled wire, night vision glasses, and an empty black water bottle. A drawback to this backpack was that it was a bright orange and could be easily seen. The tribute realized this and used mud to camouflage it. Due to the limited amount of provisions in the pack, the tribute had to do some hunting right after the bloodbath. The tribute also was not aware of the night vision glasses' function, mistaking it for a pair of sunglasses, until another tribute explained their purpose.
Another tribute's backpack at the time of death contained a slingshot, an extra pair of socks, a water skin, iodine, some nuts and roots, a bit of rabbit, and a sleeping bag which had been given as a contingency. A backpack was taken after a kill and was found to contain several knives, two extra spearheads, a flashlight, a small leather pouch, a first aid kit, a bottle of water, and a pack of dried fruit.

At the feast, there were four backpacks laid out on a table near the Cornucopia. Each was marked with the respective district number and contained what the remaining tributes needed most. There was one each for several districts, although there were six surviving tributes at the time, with two each from two of the districts. One district's backpack was small compared to the others as it only contained the medicine needed to help another tribute's leg infection. Another district's backpack is believed to have contained body armor which was later used. It is unknown what the other backpacks contained, although it was assumed that one had food. In the film, however, every district's backpack is the same size, and the only difference was the district number. One tribute was the first to obtain a backpack by camping in the Cornucopia then darting out and grabbing it. When another tribute tried to obtain a backpack next, she was attacked. After another tribute intervened and killed the attacker, he took his own backpack and another district's to draw a remaining tribute away.
Backpacks were not present in a subsequent Hunger Games due to the Cornucopia only containing weapons, making the previous Games the final one in which they appeared.

Backpacks in the Hunger Games may include:
Matches
Weapons
Blankets or sleeping bags
Extra clothing
Wire
Nets
Tools and gear
Food and water
First aid kits
Medicine