Battle of the Capitol

Conflict: Second Rebellion
Date: Late autumn - winter, 75 ADD
Place: The Capitol
Outcome: Decisive rebel victory. Surrender of all Capitol forces. The President was captured. All districts were liberated. End of the Second Rebellion.

Combatants: The Capitol Peacekeepers versus Rebels.
Commanders: The Capitol was led by its President. The rebels were led by a President and other commanders.

The Battle of the Capitol is an unofficial term for the last major large-scale engagement of the Second Rebellion. This final battle pitted the Capitol's Peacekeepers against an invading rebel coalition for control of the city and the government.

Prelude
After a period of widespread civil unrest, rebels took up arms against the Capitol in an all-out war to unify and liberate the districts. The rebels fortified supply lines, tended to the wounded, and reorganized their troops before setting their sights on the Capitol.

Tactics
Pods
A pod is an obstacle or weapon designed to trap or kill anyone in proximity of its activation. The Capitol planted many pods around the city long before the war, adding to them over the years, and these served as a defense mechanism against the rebels' advance.

Counteraction
A rebel insider had secured a map of active pods. With the use of a digital device, rebel units could access a digital version of this map and use it to navigate around the marked pods or else purposefully trigger them at a safe distance. However, the intel was several months old by the time it was put into use. As a result, some pods were mislabeled, leaving rebels facing threats they were unprepared to address. In other cases, pods were entirely missing from the map because they had been planted later. At one point, rebels began to let abandoned cars drift down the street to trigger pods, then follow after the vehicles unharmed. Once the Capitol caught on, they would manually disable a pod before the car could trigger it, then reenable it when rebel forces followed.

Propos
Propaganda spots were televised materials used to promote the rebel cause. Both the rebels and the Capitol aired these throughout much of the war, including the Battle of the Capitol.

A specific squad consisted of sharpshooters who served as the on-screen faces of the invasion. They were also a part of a disinformation team; if rebels only shot at the pods on the map, the Capitol would quickly figure out they had one, rendering it useless. It subsequently fell to this squad to draw suspicion away by shooting at less important targets. Soon after, they would be derailed from their original goal in favor of an unsanctioned mission to assassinate the President.

History
Initial rebel invasion
The rebel invasion of the Capitol began when rebel forces captured several tunnels that led through the mountains, allowing the rebels to circumvent scaling them. This enabled the rebels to achieve air superiority and establish a beachhead at the perimeter of the city. This allowed for constant reinforcement and supplies, while simultaneously blocking any possibility of retreat by Capitol forces. During the first few days of the invasion, the rebels went largely unnoticed by the Capitol's military, as they faced little resistance. Capitol military commanders urged their forces to begin fighting, believing that sufficient brutality could turn the tide of the invasion. However, there were no illusions to Capitol leaders that the city would fall.

Rebels gaining momentum
Most of the rebel losses during the battle came not from the Capitol's military forces, but rather from strategically placed traps commonly referred to as pods. These pods resulted in the deaths of numerous rebels. Nevertheless, the rebel advance continued, causing massive damage to infrastructure and mounting civilian deaths. As the battle dragged on, it became clear to the rebels that the Capitol's remaining forces were being deployed in strategically important locations, not the whole city. Capitol commanders also began deploying their troops in positions to delay or outright block the rebel advance on the city center. This tactic became increasingly ineffective because of the rebels' constant reinforcements. The Capitol troops were under-supplied and had no replacement for soldiers they were losing. Where the Capitol troops had withdrawn, pods were expected to hold the rebel troops. This did not work, but did cause huge rebel losses. The nature of the pods was widely varied, ranging from conventional weapons such as gunfire and explosives to muttations and an unknown chemical that resembled a large black wave. Nevertheless, the rebels continued their advance.

Pressing in on the City Center
In the following weeks of battle, the Capitol's defense began collapsing as the rebels pushed forward. During this period, the rebels marked out four distinct paths to the center of the Capitol. The Capitol authorities began evacuating civilians towards the center of the city. This resulted in numerous civilian deaths as the rebels attempted to engage the Peacekeepers escorting the evacuees. The close proximity of the civilians resulted in several bloodbaths.

City Circle bombing
After weeks of unsuccessful fighting, the remaining troops of the Capitol were ordered to retreat to the President's Mansion and provide security for the evacuation of civilians. As a last-ditch effort to slow down the rebel advance, the President ordered that children were to be used as a shield for his mansion. However, a hovercraft appeared and dropped what appeared to be aid parcels on the children. In reality, the aid parcels were twice-detonating explosives, which killed large numbers of children, Peacekeepers and medics who rushed in to help. Following this, all remaining support for the President and his regime collapsed, and the Capitol was quickly overrun by the rebels.

Aftermath
The government was dissolved, as were the Armed Forces and all its institutions. Mass arrests of Peacekeepers, officials, and designers soon followed, including the President himself, who was sentenced to be publicly executed. In what was supposed to be the liberalization and restructuration of the government, was actually a consolidation of power by a self-declared interim President. Showing authoritarian tendencies, the interim President refused to hold elections, and proposed a continuation of a punitive games system, which was narrowly approved. In a private meeting, the captured President revealed that it was, in fact, the interim President who had ordered the bombing of the children. During the execution ceremony, a last-minute decision was made to assassinate the interim President instead, while the captured President was killed by the crowd. With both leaders dead, an emergency presidential election was held. Under the new administration, a constitutional republic was formed, and the punitive games were abolished permanently. Massive amounts of economic and political liberalization took place. It was later proven that the hovercraft actually belonged to the rebels, evidenced by the lack of Capitol aircraft at the time and the strategy behind the bombing.