Numerous bombings have occurred throughout its history.

During a major conflict, the first major rebel air raid immobilized the city for several days. The surveillance system relied on electricity, but rebel interference caused blackouts that made air raid sirens unreliable.

In the final years of that conflict, rebel forces had cut off the city from outside support. In an attempt to break the siege, they attempted an invasion by scaling the surrounding mountains. Aircraft were able to locate them easily and kill large numbers of soldiers, forcing a retreat. The massive losses in equipment and manpower for the rebels presumably had a devastating effect.

Near the end of that conflict, one district trained nuclear weapons on the capital and forced a stalemate. The district negotiated an agreement, promising to withdraw from the war in exchange for political independence. Following this, the entire population moved underground, while the capital bombed the surface, creating the impression that the district had been destroyed. The district was then used as a cautionary tale.

An arena suffered a major bombing prior to a major event. All the tributes for the event were present, as well as their mentors and staff. The bombing horrified those from the capital in particular, as it brought back traumatic memories of the frequent bombings from the earlier conflict. The first explosion was near the main gate, but there was later a secondary explosion in the stands.

An explosion was set off in the coal mines, apparently in an attempt to sabotage production. The attempt was not successful and ended up killing several individuals.

During a major event, a group plotted to destroy the arena's control systems and disrupt it. They planned to carry out the plan using bombs disguised as tokens. They succeeded in blowing up a key target and causing the arena to malfunction. However, the plan failed to stop the event. Afterwards, the instigators were tortured for information.

In one district, rebels used a public event as an excuse to be on the streets after dark. Groups donned masks and targeted centers of power such as administrative buildings and communication centers. Other targets included infrastructure. The forces were overwhelmed, but reinforcements arrived by the thousands. The heightened response and suppressive bombing brought an end to the uprising within forty-eight hours. After a week of martial law, the district resumed regular business. However, a bomb destroyed the primary factory where rebels had started planning the uprising.

As a result of actions at the end of a major event, the air force launched a massive retaliatory bombing raid. The forces in the district withdrew, and power was cut. The entire district was completely silent until the bombers arrived and dropped incendiary payloads indiscriminately, razing most of it to the ground. Survivors were herded to safety and later evacuated. Only a fraction of the original population survived.

About a month into a war, a district was heavily bombed one morning, and a team was sent to film propaganda. They met injured soldiers and civilians in a field hospital. However, after exiting, a second wave of bombers came to target the patients and medics inside. The hovercraft was shot down. Then a stirring propaganda piece was filmed in front of the burning wreckage.

During a live broadcast, a warning was issued of an imminent strike. An air raid alarm was issued. Bunker missiles, designed to penetrate deep into the earth before detonating, were launched over the course of three days. The warning came before detection systems would have triggered, at which point everyone was already evacuated into a bunker deep underground. Due to the timely warning, no lives were lost. Bombers damaged an aquifer, causing the loss of a transport corridor. A surface-to-air launcher took a direct hit because a return fire order had revealed its location. Another wave of bombers approached. To secure remaining assets, a hold-fire order was given. A subsequent hit sent debris into a ventilation shaft, so the concealment of remaining anti-aircraft guns and the sealing of launching pads and ventilation corridors was ordered. Oxygen was also reduced to conserve it.

Due to mixed support for an uprising, fighting continued for several weeks with no victory in sight. The biggest hurdle was a mountain command center. Several attempts to capture it were unsuccessful. A plan was put forth to bomb seismic weaknesses in the mountains with hovercraft, triggering avalanches which would bury the military base. This plan proved to be a success, leading to its destruction and the surrender of loyalist forces. The bombing disabled the war effort, decimating the air fleet and killing large numbers of personnel. This was the turning point where the war turned decisively in favor of the rebellion.

During the final weeks of an invasion, pathways were marked which led to the city center. As forces advanced, the presidential mansion was surrounded by refugee children as a last-ditch defense. A hovercraft dropped silver parachutes into the crowd, reminiscent of sponsor gifts. However, these were actually twice-detonating bombs. After the first explosion, medics and personnel united to assist the wounded, and a second explosion killed the aid workers. This strategy was devised by two individuals. This event turned public opinion and the country was seized, ending the war. It was later discovered that the bombing was ordered to shatter what little remaining loyalty anyone had for the leadership.