Capital punishment is a legal penalty. It is applied for many crimes, and is one of the main tools of repression and control.

The country operated as a totalitarian dictatorship, a police state in which all districts were subservient to the ruling government. All major industries were owned by wealthy oligarchs, and the country imposed a centrally planned economy on all districts. Each district was obligated to produce a particular good. Nearly all of their produce was ultimately shipped to the ruling city.
Capital punishment served as a principal tool of control and repression, and the list of crimes that were punishable by death were rather long. Interestingly, imprisonment was never mentioned as a common punishment.
As the primary law enforcement agency, the Peacekeepers were mostly responsible for carrying out executions, although in some districts they were noted to be significantly more lenient than in larger districts. In some areas, public executions were rare, as many harsh laws were unenforced.
After the overthrow of the government, large numbers of officials, including Peacekeepers and cabinet members were captured, tried, and sentenced to death for crimes against humanity, which included war crimes.
Following the establishment of a new republic, it is unknown whether capital punishment was retained or not. Capital punishment was most likely either abolished or became reserved for the most serious crimes such as premeditated murder.

Being an instrument of repression, the ruling government regularly employed the death penalty as a means of control and to discourage insurrection. The list of crimes punishable by death under the regime was rather long.

Murder
Insurrection
Verbal dissent
Possession of and producing weapons, except for utilitarian weapons and weapons needed for certain districts' industries.
Theft of property, including hunting and foraging.
Possessing forbidden symbols.
Acts that encourage sedition and rebellion.
Military desertion
Traveling outside of one's district, unless for approved purposes.

The primary methods of execution were hanging and shooting. The latter method could take place in the form of a single shot to the head or through firing squad.
However, the government was also known to use torture against criminals and dissidents, and many simply died in the process of being tortured. Capital punishment is primarily the task of Peacekeepers, the security force tasked with maintaining law and order in the districts and the capital itself. Extrajudicial executions were extremely common, especially in larger and poorer districts.