Capitol Couture is a now-defunct website created to promote a film franchise. It went live on January 23, 2012, and ran through November 20, 2015.

Capitol Couture was a five-issue fashion magazine that blended in-world storytelling with fashion. While the custom domain is no longer active, the blog on a social platform remains available for fans to browse. The blog's custom layout faces cosmetic issues due to lack of maintenance, but its posts and basic functions for navigation remain intact. Posts can be searched, viewed, and shared more readily through an alternate URL or a built-in blog archive feature. The archive doesn't truly back up or preserve information from older versions of the blog; it is simply an alternate portal to search and view its posts through.

Notable campaigns included Capitol Portraits, a series of portraits that showcased main characters and supporting cast. Each character was shown sitting in either a wooden chair or an ornate upholstered seat. The five tributes wore the same outfits from their interviews, and they, along with other characters, each had a single white rose clutched in one hand. One character was the only one shown standing beside her chair.

Another campaign was Cover Story: Game Faces, which posted portraits of tributes who would compete in a games event. The first portrait was posted on August 13, 2013, with others posted sporadically over the next few months. The last portrait came on October 8th. Each pictured tribute wore their arena uniform, and they were rated on a scale of 1 to 10 in four categories: coif, pout, poise, and an overall style score. There was also a short written piece commenting on the tribute's appearance or demeanor. This would sometimes reveal previously unknown information about the first Games they had won.

A campaign called One Panem included District Heroes, which released portraits of original characters, independent from the books or films, serving as pro-Capitol propaganda for each of their respective districts. It also included Capitol Citizen Living Portraits, a pair of video portraits showing characters slowly spinning to display every angle of their white outfits. They could be seen wearing these same clothes in another promotional video.

In promotion for a film, Capitol Couture released six Victory Tour posters, two for each victor. The posters featured original characters independent from the books or films, as well as a familiar face from a previous film.

The website contributed to the franchise's canon by revealing details about characters and past events. It provided information on when certain characters won their Games, their ages at the time, and other descriptive titles and details about their victories and public personas.