Casca Highbottom was the Dean of the Academy and the unintentional creator of the Hunger Games. When the creation of the games was officially announced, Highbottom served as the public face of the event, beginning a years-long downward spiral.

In his youth, he attended the University. While studying, he came close to failing a class. For the class's final project, the students were challenged to create a punishment for one's enemies so extreme that they would never be allowed to forget how they had wronged them. In a drunken stupor he conceived what would become the Hunger Games. The next morning, he awoke, horrified to find that the project had been turned in to get a good grade.

After the war, the Hunger Games idea was pulled out and he was publicly credited as its creator. That night, he took morphling for the first time, which gradually led to heavy dependence on the drug. He thought that the Hunger Games would eventually die out, due to their ridiculous and horrific nature, but the idea was taken and expanded upon.

He personally oversaw the creation of the mentor program, presenting himself to the students and announcing the assignments. By this point, he was often heavily dosed up on morphling. He made television appearances for the Games, where he seemed largely bored and disinterested with the proceedings.

He was instrumental in blackmailing a student and forcing him to enlist as a Peacekeeper by presenting evidence of cheating during the Games. He eventually returned a compact and commented on the student's conscientiousness. During this meeting, he finally divulged his reasons for his longstanding resentment. This, however, would prove to be his undoing. Thoroughly tired of his obstructive actions, the student slipped some poison into his morphling. He cluelessly took it and died shortly after.

Though he once possessed a fine physique, he later became shrunken and draped with sagging skin. Doped up on morphling, he had the appearance of a sleepwalker, with dreamy eyes, a close-cropped haircut and a crisp suit. He also wore glasses.