Catching Fire is the second book in The Hunger Games trilogy. It is the sequel to The Hunger Games.  
Catching Fire continues the story following the 74th Hunger Games. The main character, along with a fellow tribute, are forced to go through another Hunger Games - the Third Quarter Quell.

Against all odds, the main character has won the Hunger Games. She and a fellow tribute are miraculously still alive. She should be relieved, happy even. After all, she has returned to her family and her longtime friend. Yet nothing is the way she wishes it to be. Her friend holds her at an icy distance. The fellow tribute has turned his back on her completely. And there are whispers of a rebellion against the Capitol — a rebellion that the two may have helped create.
Much to her shock, she has fueled an unrest she's afraid she cannot stop. And what scares her even more is that she's not entirely convinced she should try. As time draws near for the two to visit the districts on the Capitol's cruel Victory Tour, the stakes are higher than ever. If they can't prove, without a shadow of a doubt, that they are lost in their love for each other, the consequences will be horrifying.

The main character is now back in her district. Soon they will both have to leave home again for the Victory Tour where the winners of the previous Hunger Games travel to each district and make various appearances and public speeches. She expected that when she returned home everything would be the same, but now her best friend seems farther away than ever, and with the Victory Tour coming up, she has more on her mind than ever. One day after she returns home, an unexpected visitor appears. He explains to her that during the last Hunger Games when she tried to commit suicide with the fellow tribute, she ignited a possible uprising in the districts. They have a lengthy conversation about the fact that if she doesn't convince the districts that she made the decision out of temporary lovesickness, then he would personally make sure she suffers.
She, now convinced she has started a fire she cannot control, tries her best to convince everyone that she and the fellow tribute are madly in love. When she and the fellow tribute finally set off for the Victory Tour, everything is going smoothly, and he has agreed with her that outside of being star-crossed lovers, they should try to be friends. When the tour arrives at their first destination, she gets to meet the families of two tributes who were killed. After her speech, an old man whistles a four-note tune, and the crowd simultaneously does a traditional gesture to show their thanks. Right after she finishes her speech, she realizes she forgot something, so she goes back to retrieve it. There, she sees a Peacekeeper shoot the man who whistled in the head.
Afterwards, she and the fellow tribute confess what had happened to their mentor. He tells her to explain to the fellow tribute what is going on, so she tells him everything about the visit, the threat of uprisings, and how they are all in jeopardy if something doesn't change soon. The fellow tribute becomes angry and tells her and the mentor to stop keeping secrets from him, then leaves.
The rest of Victory Tour fell into a routine. Finally, they get to the Capitol. That night, when she and the fellow tribute go to get interviewed, he performs a fake proposal to her which she accepts. The interviewer is beside himself, the audience is hysterical, and the crowds in the districts are overflowing with happiness. The visitor then makes an unexpected appearance to congratulate the newly engaged couple. She then makes a discreet gesture to ask him if she was convincing enough to which he replies "no" with an almost imperceptible shake of the head. She now knows her life is in constant danger, but despite that, she feels somewhat relieved, and carries on like nothing ever happened.
That night, she has dinner in the mansion and feasts like never before. Many Capitol citizens drank something that made them vomit so they could eat more. Soon it's time to go and they are on their way back to their district. She suffers from terrifying nightmares throughout the night on the train, so the fellow tribute sleeps in her bed to calm her and keep her company. Finally they get back and a huge party is thrown for them. While in a home, she sees on a television that there is an uprising going on in another district. She arranges a secret meeting with her friend, at which he confesses his love for her but she says that she does not have those feelings for him. Her friend gets angry and disappointed but before he leaves she accidentally tells him there was a rebellion. Her friend then says that they could have a rebellion in their district as well, and he runs off to spread the news. She then goes to the fellow tribute to ask him if he would run away with her and he says yes, but while they are discussing the plans, they see that her friend is being violently whipped in the square by an unfamiliar man.
She steps in to stop the man, but he gives her a lash across the face. She gets severely hurt but the mentor and the fellow tribute step in to save her. Eventually the people convince the man to stop whipping her friend. As soon as he leaves, everyone helps her take her friend to her mother. Her mother tries to soothe the pain by giving him medicine when suddenly another person comes with some morphling to help soothe the pain. Later on that night, she says she picks her friend, but is still torn between him and the fellow tribute.
The next day, there is a huge blizzard, during which the man constructs several stockades, an official whipping post, and a gallows, as well as a series of machine gun positions perched on the rooftops in the square. While walking in town, the mentor and the two see these ugly tools of torture, and then a local place is destroyed by the Peacekeepers. The last thing she notices when leaving the square is that she does not recognize even one of the Peacekeepers' faces.
She realizes that she cannot stand to be at home, so she goes into the woods. She sees two Peacekeepers, and before she shoots them, one of them holds up a cracker with a mockingjay on it.

The two Peacekeepers were actually two young women who had run away from another district. They brought news to her about the uprising in their district. They said they were headed to another district which, to her, was unbelievable. They believed that people lived underground there. They explain to her that they know it exists because the Capitol reuses old footage whenever it is shown on TV, as they believe that they always see the same bird in the same place. This leads her to wonder what the district currently looks like.
She gives the women her food supplies and shows them how to hunt. When the evening comes, they leave her and she returns. However she realizes that the fence to the district is now electrified and she is unable to enter through her normal passage. She decides she needs to go over the fence, and searches for the right tree. She climbs up and over and must jump from a great height. She lands, and hurts herself. She returns home and tells her family that her slipping on some ice caused her injuries, but there are two peacekeepers there waiting for her. They are surprised to see her, because they know she was in the forest and believed she would be trapped on the other side of the fence.
They were waiting for her not to show up so they can bring her family in for questioning. Luckily, the mentor, the fellow tribute and her sibling were able to go along with a story to cover for her. After the Peacekeepers leave, her mother examines her broken foot, and the fellow tribute stays with her through the night after she asked him to stay. She is in bed for the winter, while he keeps her company and they enter information in her mothers' medicinal and edible plant book, with pictures that he is drawing.
Once she is healed, her prep team comes in to help her with her wedding fashion shoot, along with her stylist. She listens to them speak of how they have not had shrimp in the Capitol for weeks and realizes that other districts are rebelling. The next day, she speaks to the mentor and he tells her that because their district is so small, everyone would need to join in for them to overthrow the Peacekeepers and the Capitol. The same day, her sibling comes home and tells everyone that there is a mandatory television scheduling that night, which she believes is the footage from the wedding fashion shoot.
Her sibling is partially correct, but there is also another big announcement. The visitor appears with a wooden box, and reminds the audience of the dark days and when the Hunger Games were born. He also states that every 25 years, the anniversary of the Hunger Games is marked by a Quarter Quell, a glorified version of the Games. He talks about the first Quell, when every district was made to vote on who was sent to the Hunger Games. In the second Quell, every district was forced to send twice as many tributes into the Hunger Games. The wooden box holds the information for the 3rd Quarter Quell. He pulls out an envelope and states that the male and female tributes will be reaped from the existing pool of victors. Since her district has only three winners, the fellow tribute, the mentor, and herself, she knows that she is now going to be forced to go back to the Hunger Games.
She runs out of the house and into a basement of an empty house to scream and cry. She makes her way to the mentor where he already tells her the fellow tribute has come to visit him, and told him that he wants to go back into the arena to protect her. She tells the mentor that whatever they do, she wants him to make sure the fellow tribute comes back alive. She and the mentor get drunk and the next afternoon, she goes back to the mentor's house where the fellow tribute has emptied all of his liquor and has threatened to turn them or anyone who gives them alcohol in. He tells them that they will be training for the Quarter Quell because two people will come back alive, and they begin to work out and also study footage of past winners to see their competition.
On the day of the reaping, she has decided to say goodbye to her friend, to tell him how much he means to her. The reaping has her as only choice for the female competitor, and the male competitor chosen is the mentor; however, the fellow tribute volunteers to take his place. Instead of being able to tell their families goodbye, they are brought directly to the train and leave for the Capitol.
Once at the Capitol, they eat and find out who the competitors from the other districts are. That night, after she is woken from a nightmare, she goes to see the fellow tribute. The two embrace and are interrupted. They decide to watch more videos and come across the mentor's victory from the 2nd Quarter Quell which they have not seen. She recognizes a name as her mother's friend, and realizes that she was a twin to her friend's mother. She also sees her mother crying and embracing the friend when she is called. She also sees the mentor being called up. She notes that he was powerful looking, and even somewhat handsome.
The mentor allied with the friend and he broke through the foliage surrounding one end of the arena; he discovered the force field surrounding the arena to prevent the tributes from escaping. He wished to investigate further but the friend did not so the two tributes parted ways. Just after the two broke off their alliance, the friend was killed by a flock of birds that pierced her throat and the mentor stayed with her until she died, holding her hand.
The mentor became one of the last two remaining tributes, the other being a female Career tribute from another district. The girl pursued the mentor to the edge of the arena where the force field was located. Both tributes were wounded, but the mentor more so; the female tribute attempted to win the Games by outlasting the mentor. However, the mentor used the force field during the final fight when his adversary threw her ax at him; it was repelled back by the field and killed her. The mentor was crowned victor. However, the leader of the Capitol, was furious about the mentor's trick with the force field, which she would later describe as being "almost as bad as the berries." She wonders what the Capitol did to punish the mentor.
Once they arrive, they are ushered to prepare for the Opening Ceremonies. Right before the ceremony, a tribute from another district hits on her, asking her to divulge her secrets but she brushes him away. After the ceremony, another tribute walks by her naked. She does not understand why everyone is acting weird until the fellow tribute explains that to the Capitol, she is "pure" and they are trying to get under her skin, which angers her.
They go to the rooms where she sees an Avox girl from the 74th Hunger Games, and also a new Avox, which turns out to be a man from her district, who tried to stop the whipping of her friend. He, like all Avoxes, was forced to suffer getting his tongue cut out. She is warned by the mentor not to say anything because it would mean punishment for him. Later, the mentor tells them that they must form alliances this year and make friends. During training, she befriends two tributes from another district, who point out the force field used to separate the Gamemakers from the tributes. She displays her archery skills and is wanted by many to be in an alliance. In their solo performances for the Gamemakers, both the fellow tribute and she are unsure of what to do. He goes first, and after a long wait she goes. She doesn't know what he did, but she can tell that the Gamemakers are angry. She sees the new Head Gamemaker, and has an idea. She ties a noose to a dummy and with berry juice writes the name of the former Head Gamemaker during her Hunger Games, who let both her and the fellow tribute live. He was executed.
Afterwards, she finds out that the fellow tribute made a drawing of a past tribute with the flowers on the ground which could not be washed away, and was covered by the Gamemakers. The mentor is not happy because now they have made enemies. The training scores are shown, and she wonders to her stylist if anyone has ever received a 0. But instead, she and the fellow tribute both receive perfect scores. The mentor explains that this was done to make sure the other tributes are gunning for the both of them. The fellow tribute and she stay together that night, and she has come to accept her death, which she knows will be the spark for the rebellion. That night, both do not have nightmares. The following day, they spend the entire day and night together alone on the roof.
The day of the interview, the prep team comes into her room and find her and the fellow tribute together. He leaves and as the prep team starts to cry, they leave one by one until one is left. She then says goodbye and the stylist comes in with her wardrobe, specifically chosen by the visitor, the chosen wedding gown from the photo shoot. She notes to the stylist that it's heavier than before, but he explains that he had to do some alterations and tells her do not lift her arms until she twirls on television.
The interview atmosphere is different from the previous year. The tributes are speaking out against the Capitol, asking why the visitor is not stopping this if he is great and powerful. The second last tribute to speak is her, who comes on stage with the dress on, apologizing to the crowd for not letting them see her get married. She twirls and raises her arms and the wedding dress burns away to reveal a different dress underneath. When she looks towards a television, she realizes that the stylist has turned her into a mockingjay.
Although the interviewer knows what the dress represents, they play it off as the bird on her token. Next comes the fellow tribute, the last tribute to speak. He tells the audience that he and she are already married, and tells them that she is pregnant. This drives the audience to madness and hysteria. As he makes his way back to the other tributes, he holds her hands amidst the chaos, and in turn she grabs the hand of another tribute who is next to her, and then all the tributes join hands before the Capitol has time to turn the cameras off, and she knows that this, the joining of unity on the stage, has now rippled into the districts and will stir the rebellion even more. Their escort was forced to leave without saying goodbye to them, and they say their goodbyes to the mentor. He tells them to stay alive, and to always remember who the real enemy is.
Getting ready for the ceremonies, she is in the room with the stylist when she steps on the plate to be taken to the arena, when she is frozen in place and can't move. She looks at the stylist who just shakes his head in confusion, when three peacekeepers enter the room, who then arrest, beat him into submission and drag him out of the room. A frozen she watches in horror, but then is transported to the arena.
The plate leaves her in the middle of blue water, which she realizes "is no place for a girl on fire."

When the gong sounds, she dives into the water and swims to shore, noting that she feels very light and very fast. First to arrive, she heads for the weapons, as she knows the Careers would do. She grabs a bow and arrows, and turns when she hears a noise, poised to kill. It's a tribute with his trident raised. She sees his gold bracelet which once belonged to the mentor and realizes that this was his way of telling her to form an alliance. He yells for her to duck, and spears a man with the trident. They search the other items and notice that it only contains weapons, no food etc. The Careers are now making their way to shore. She tries to shoot one, but misses and shoots one in the calf. She then aims for another who is charging towards her but he manages to stop it with his belt before it punctures his liver. She realizes that the fellow tribute is still on the metal plate and goes to retrieve him, but the other tribute offers to do it. She notices an older tribute jump into the water and doggy paddle to shore. When the fellow tribute and the other are on shore, the older tribute explains to him (who is apparently the only person who understands her) that the belts on their outfits are flotation devices.
From the beach, they run into a jungle. The other tribute carries the older tribute and the fellow tribute leads the way. After their first stop, she climbs the trees to get a look and sees that there are many bodies in the water and on the beach, but she can't tell who they are.
As they are walking, searching for drinkable water, she notices a shimmering square and realizes that it is a force field surrounding the arena. Before she can stop him, the fellow tribute walks into it and is repelled back, knocking the older tribute and the other to the ground. He is not breathing. Panicked, she begins to slap him but his heart has stopped. The other tribute offers to help by beginning CPR. She doesn't realize what he is doing at first and begins fighting him, but he slaps her away and the fellow tribute eventually is resuscitated. He asks her how she recognized the force field. She does not want to let them know she can spot them visually, because the Gamemakers might do something to