Coral was the female tribute from District 4 during the 10th Hunger Games. She was noted as being one of the stronger tributes for these Games. She demonstrated her ability with a trident, wielding an old broomstick in such a way that left little doubt of her skill. She was in an alliance with her district partner and another male tribute.

When the Games began, she sprinted towards the weapons pile. After gathering up a few weapons, she ran into the tunnels. She pursued two individuals who had entered the arena, and along with her allies, was able to severely injure them.

On the second day of the Games, she teamed up once more with her allies. The alliance chased another female tribute until she speared the tribute's throat with a trident. When they targeted another female tribute on the third day, that tribute initially chose to target her but missed. After a few blocked jabs, she thrust her trident into the tribute's body, and the tribute fell. Afterward, she killed her male ally with a trident. She then bandaged her district partner's knee, and they headed back into the tunnels.

When snake mutts were released into the arena, dozens of them attacked her. Even as she shook one off, more mutts swarmed around her, and she died shortly thereafter.

During the trip to the arena to survey it before the Games, she had notably begun recruiting multiple allies to help her. She had already recruited her district partner and another male tribute to her alliance in advance. She then recruited another male tribute, making it clear that only he was invited.

When the gong rang, she ran to the center and picked up a trident. She began to attack another tribute, but that tribute dodged her attacks. She stabbed one tribute in the chest with her trident, then retrieved it. She targeted the same tribute with her next attack, but the trident embedded itself in another tribute's chest instead. After she took the trident back, she and her allies gathered before chasing two tributes into the tunnels. However, the two tributes narrowly escaped, so they attacked another alliance. She saw a tribute in a grate and killed that tribute as well. The group continued to inspect the tunnels.

At night, the four saw two individuals running towards the exit and decided to chase them, not stopping even when another tribute was killed. After the two individuals escaped, the tributes returned to the center of the arena. The next day, the four had cornered a tribute when that tribute was sent several drones with water. The drones crashed into the alliance, and the tribute was able to escape.

The group then attacked another female tribute. She climbed up the beam the tribute was standing on, attacking her despite the tribute's attempts to defend herself. After driving the trident into the other tribute's stomach, she threw her off the beam. Afterward, the allies saw the same tribute from before and chased her into a ventilation shaft. When one of her allies reproached her for not being able to kill the tribute, she stuck her trident into his chest. They then arrived below the tribute's position inside the ducts. She told her district partner to go to the pile of weapons for a spear, then jammed her own trident into the vent. The tribute fell from the duct, and she and her district partner chased the tribute into the center of the arena, where a drone deposited a large tank that released hundreds of snake mutts.

She, the tribute, and her district partner began to run, but her district partner was killed by the snake mutts. In desperation, she followed the other tribute in climbing up a pile of rubble but became surrounded by snakes. Throwing away her trident to show she meant her no further harm, she pleaded for her life, lamenting all the people she had hurt for nothing. She was soon bitten and died from the poison.