The Dark Days were a major civil war in which a rebel coalition of districts launched an open insurrection against the totalitarian government. The conflict lasted for three years. The government was victorious, so the twelve remaining districts were brought back under its control.

After the world was devastated by natural disasters and war, the nation was established. It consisted of thirteen districts, with its capital and seat of power situated in the mountains. In the capital's version of events, they brought peace and prosperity to the districts, so the true circumstances that led to the rebellion are not told.

Students at the capital's Academy were taught that one district had instigated the conflict, disseminating arms and communications to rebels throughout the other districts.

A few months into the war, the first major rebel air raid on the capital immobilized the city for several days. Every citizen was assigned a bomb shelter near their residence. However, the capital's surveillance system relied on electricity, and rebel interference in one district caused frequent blackouts. Under these circumstances, air raid sirens were unreliable, so citizens were often caught off guard and forced to shelter in place.

The capital staged high-profile executions in its arena, making it a prime target for rebel bombers.

Alongside regular military units, the capital used genetically-modified muttations against the rebels. Tracker jacker nests were strategically placed around the districts like land mines, but could be sedated by smoke. In several districts, jabberjays were used to spy on rebels, but they were countered by simply feeding them false information.

Rebels were able to sustain the fight on their end with support from one district's military arsenal. For the last two years of the conflict, the capital was under siege, entirely cut off from outside supplies. As a result of this, food supplies ran low, forcing desperate families to sell their goods and furniture for rations, or else face starvation. In extreme cases, some citizens resorted to cannibalism.

Eventually, the rebels attempted to break the siege by scaling the mountains and invading the capital itself. The terrain left them exposed to capital aircraft, likely resulting in heavy rebel casualties. This turned the tide of the war in favor of the capital.

Realizing that the rebels had lost their advantage, one district abandoned the other twelve districts in order to secure its own independence. Its forces wrested control of the capital's nuclear missiles and trained them on the city, threatening mutually assured destruction.
Unbeknownst to most residents, that district set up a secret ceasefire deal with the capital in which they would withdraw their forces from the war and present the illusion that the capital had destroyed them. The capital reluctantly agreed to the terms. They allowed the district to withdraw from the war and retreat to their existing underground facilities, before demolishing the infrastructure above through repeated carpet bombing. The capital then used the ruins in propaganda as a warning or threat to the other districts. Without the support of that district's military, rebel forces in the other districts were overrun and reunified under the firm grip of the capital.

Following the collapse of the rebellion, a new treaty introduced new laws to subjugate the remaining districts. It instituted an annual event as a reminder of the failed rebellion, keeping the districts divided and suppressed so they couldn't rise up again.

Cut off from the other districts, the seceded district struggled to survive and nearly collapsed several times. Despite this, it fought to become self-sufficient and rebuilt its military forces and arsenal over the next seventy-five years— all while remaining underground. This eventually allowed them to stage a second rebellion.