The District 8 hospital was a warehouse turned into a makeshift hospital after the initial bombing of District 8 during the Second Rebellion.

Following the bombing, hundreds of people carted the wounded to the warehouse. Although districts ordinarily left people to die at home, the bombing had destroyed many housing units, leaving families with no other choice than to take patients to the makeshift hospital. A mass grave had been started a few blocks west.

The afternoon of the bombing, a team was sent via hovercraft. Another hovercraft carrying medical supplies and medics followed. The team was gestured inside. The visitor was initially repulsed by the conditions of the hospital, but gained confidence after being greeted. They interacted with the wounded and allowed them to touch them. Many reassured them about another individual, and people were devastated upon hearing that the visitor had "lost the baby" they had supposedly been carrying. In the film, patients gave the three-finger salute after being told the visitor would fight.

However, once the visitor and the crew exited, news was received of incoming bombers targeting the hospital. Although an attempt was made to fend them off, the new wave of bombs collapsed the hospital roof and set the building on fire. A group of rescuers tried to clear a path, but the patients were trapped and killed by falling debris, flames, and smoke asphyxiation. According to one character, the antagonist had found the patients "expendable" and wanted to scare others off from seeking help. The bombing was aired live as a way of sending a message. In response, a propo was recorded to warn the antagonist and encourage the rebels to fight back.

In the film, a character showed the antagonist camera footage of the visitor at the hospital and suggested sending hovercraft to target them. The antagonist ordered the wounded killed despite protests. It was argued that everyone in the hospital had committed treason by associating with the visitor.

The warehouse had the letter H sloppily painted above the entrance. An industrial curtain hung the length of the interior, forming a corridor where corpses were placed with cloths covering their faces. Rows of wounded lay behind the curtain on cots, pallets, and the floor. Black flies were prevalent, and the hospital smelled of soiled linen, rotting flesh, and vomit. Open skylights did nothing to ease the smell, nor did the heat.