District 12 was the smallest and poorest of the thirteen districts of Panem. Its main industry is coal mining, but after the Second Rebellion, their main industry was converted to medicine. It had a population of around 8,000 people prior to being firebombed.

Since District 12 was the poorest of Panem's districts, its tributes were almost guaranteed a quick death. Prior to the 74th Hunger Games, the district had produced only two victors. Most of its tributes were malnourished, impoverished, and unaccustomed to glamour. Most District 12 tributes were inexperienced with weapons compared to other districts, holding them at a major disadvantage since their residents were only allowed to become miners at 18. Sponsors typically refused to support District 12 tributes given how rarely they had stood out or succeeded in the past.

Following the events of the third Quarter Quell, the Capitol bombed District 12, only sparing the Victors' Village. Escaping citizens were able to tear down the fence and evacuate about 800 people; however, the majority of the district's people were killed in the firebombing. After its destruction, the rebels utilized District 12 as a transportation base to send troops to the Capitol.

After Panem's second war, people returned to District 12. A mass grave was dug for victims of the bombing, and a medicine factory was constructed as District 12 began to rebuild.

The Seam was the poorest part of District 12. Food was extremely difficult to acquire and almost all families lived in abject poverty. Many who lived there lost families due to mining accidents or from starvation. They only had electricity a few hours a day, so they mostly used candles for light. As a result, any adult who reached elderhood was venerated. In contrast, those who were well fed and young were scorned. Early in the mornings, the streets of the Seam were crowded with exhausted coal miners heading to work, who faced the lethal risks of collapsing caverns and noxious fumes on a daily basis. One safeguard in the mines was a canary who would sing - when the canary went silent, it indicated the mine air was no longer safe to breathe. With the primary outputs of coal in the region, everything in the Seam seemed to be coated in a layer of coal dust.

The square was where the district's merchant class lived, above their places of work. All the district's citizens would be forced to gather in the square to watch that year's annual reaping, which took place on the stage out front of the Justice Building. The Justice Building was used for formal administrative tasks, including marriage registrations. Tributes had an hour to say goodbye to their loved ones inside, and the eldest children of miners killed in accidents received medals of honor here.

The Hob was the district's black market. It was burned down by Peacekeepers.

The Victors' Village is a small area where the victors of previous Hunger Games dwell. The houses are grand and luxurious compared to the rest of District 12; however, the village was wholly neglected for years due to a lack of victors.

The sole settlement was surrounded by a twenty-foot high electric fence, though it was rarely on due to power shortages. While officials informed the public that the fence was meant to ward away wild animals, it was more likely to prevent people from escaping out into the wilderness. When a new Head Peacekeeper arrived, the fence's electricity was reactivated. It was later torn down by escaping refugees.

This scruffy field just inside the fence sits near a house in the Seam. A number of plants and flowers grow there, both edible and medicinal. This was a main entry point into the woods. After the war, it became a mass grave for those who died in the bombing, but the plants there regrew.

Other notable locations included the hanging tree, the school, the graveyard, and entrances to the mines.

The three-finger salute is a symbol made with the three middle fingers of your left hand, bringing them to your lips, and then holding them out to another person. In District 12, it's an expression of admiration, gratitude, and a way to say goodbye to someone you love.

Due to poverty, most people don't own books, so they pass on their stories through songs. By a certain time, songs are largely discouraged.

Weddings were simple events conducted with humble materials. Traditionally, women would rent a well-worn white dress, while men donned clothing outside of their normal mining clothes. The couple would register as spouses at the Justice Building to be assigned a home. For a ceremony, there would be a small gathering of close friends and family members enjoying a meal and if available, a piece of cake. The reception would then sing a traditional song to welcome the couple into their new home as they crossed the threshold. Afterwards, the newlyweds would make their first fire and do the traditional toasting of bread to share together.

The Harvest Festival is always celebrated on the last day of the Victory Tour, typically observed with a meal at home or with a few friends if one can afford it. As decoration, people affix bunches of brightly colored corn to their front doors. For the conclusion of the tour, Harvest Festival celebrations were a public affair put on by the Capitol.

A bell was always rung in the Justice Building on New Year's Day. It was also seen as an occasion special enough to warrant a cake from the bakery, if one could afford it.

At the time of the prequel, a nomadic minority group had been forced to settle in District 12. They had a number of their own unique cultural practices, such as their names, colorful clothes, and musical performances. Some of their songs still survived at the time of the trilogy. District 12's first victor was a member of this group.

In the history of the Games, there have only been four victors from District 12.