There are only a few known elections in its history, given that its government was primarily a totalitarian dictatorship and a police state. During the Second Rebellion, the rebels fought to establish it as a republic with a representative democracy.

Few elections are mentioned. Due to widespread inequality and systematic oppression, the districts were largely unrepresented in national politics. Each district had a mayor who oversaw local matters, but the nation as a whole was overseen by citizens of the capital. The president possessed nearly all governing power, and the position was presumably a lifetime appointment. It is unknown how any officials attained power, although most of them were likely appointed.
Following its secession during the Dark Days, one district operated as a stratocracy, or government headed by military chiefs, and all of its citizens were drafted into military service. Its head of state retained the title of president, but it is unknown whether one attained this position through election, appointment, or merit.

After the Second Rebellion ended in a decisive rebel victory, an interim president was put in charge and claimed an election would be held after an indefinite period of time. An emergency presidential election was then organized, and a commander was elected into office as the new head of state. This was the first known democratic election for the purposes of political representation. It can be assumed that other elections soon followed, and a representative democracy was officially instated.

For a special Hunger Games, each district was forced to vote on the tributes they would send to fight in the arena. This was intended as a reminder that they started the war and sent their young to die.
Another apolitical election was held prior to a later Hunger Games regarding the selection of a wedding gown. The winning gown was worn during a pre-Games interview.
On the day of a scheduled execution, the surviving victors voted on a proposal for another Hunger Games featuring the children of capital officials. This proposal was approved by a narrow majority, but it was never carried out.