In Panem, an execution was the state-sanctioned killing of citizens by Peacekeepers, typically by hanging or by firearm, as retribution for a perceived crime. This practice is also known as capital punishment. Following the Second Rebellion, the power to carry out executions was transferred over to the rebels.

During the Dark Days, the Capitol staged high-profile executions of rebels in the Capitol Arena, which would later be appropriated for the first ten annual Hunger Games. There were also many brutal executions after the Treaty of Treason was signed.

In the lead-up to the 10th Hunger Games, a tribute was shot by Peacekeepers after killing her mentor, and two other tributes were shot dead while trying to escape the Capitol Arena.

Three formal executions took place in one district, the first being the execution of an ex-soldier. After killing three people in a bombing, he was sentenced to death by hanging. At the hanging tree, he called for his lover to run. His execution inspired a song.

The lover was later executed for treason as well, alongside a Peacekeeper, who had been planning to run away from the districts. The two were described as weak with terror; the lover's legs were shaking so badly that she had to be hauled up by Peacekeepers. The Peacekeeper first called out to his friend, who had betrayed him to this fate, and his last act was to cry out for his mother.

The winter after a later Hunger Games, a man was sentenced to be hanged in the gallows for an unknown crime. The night before his execution, someone filed halfway through the rope, so when they tried to hang him in front of a crowd the next day, the rope snapped. He fell to the ground, where he was shot dead. A witness reported seeing a girl leaving the square, so she was taken for questioning. However, the man's sister claimed responsibility. She had been living due to a heart condition, so three days after being taken into custody, the sister died in her cell and the girl was released.

When a boy was reaped for a later Hunger Games, he attempted to run away. Before he could get there, he was shot dead with a single bullet through the back of the head by a young Peacekeeper stationed as a sniper. When the boy's family tried to claim his body, a girl aided them, and her boyfriend stepped in when a Peacekeeper tried to hit her. As a result of the chaos, the reaping of another boy had to be staged to patch into the broadcast. For his role in the struggle, an official singled out the boyfriend for punishment, replacing the boy in the Games.

It was explained that Peacekeepers in one district once executed a developmentally disabled boy on the spot for stealing. He'd tried to take a pair of night vision glasses from an orchard to play with.

A Head Gamemaker was executed for allowing two tributes to both win a Hunger Games. His manner of death is unknown, but during a private session in front of the Gamemakers for a later Hunger Games, one of those victors hanged him in effigy using a training dummy.

During a Victory Tour stop in one district, an old man whistled a song, and in a show of rebellion, the people of the district performed a traditional salute. As the victors left the stage, the old man was dragged up the steps to be immediately killed with a single shot to the back of the head, and at least two more gunshots followed, quite probably signaling more deaths.
Following an uprising in another district, citizens were forbidden from leaving their homes, and the only time the television didn't display static was when they aired the hangings of suspected instigators in the town square.
One district's new Head Peacekeeper had a new whipping post, several stockades, and a gallows built in the center of their square. According to an observer, these new installations were in frequent use, but it's unknown whether anyone was executed.

After a victor was rescued from the Capitol, the President televised the execution of that victor's stylist and prep team. By the end of the Second Rebellion, all stylists from a specific Quarter Quell were dead, and all but one prep team had been killed. In that same time frame, all but seven Hunger Games victors were killed in a purge. Many died in a specific Hunger Games, and for most of the subsequent deaths, it's unknown how many of them were executions, civilian deaths, or casualties of combat.

In a speech, the President announced that possessing images of a mockingjay would be considered treason, punishable by death. While this happened, two people from one district and three from another were hauled out in front of their respective Justice Buildings and a crowd of their peers. With sacks over their faces, each victim was shot once in the back of the head. They are often presumed to be victors due to the purge.

Following the end of the war, the President was tried and sentenced to death. The plan was for him to be shot in the heart with a single arrow by a victor, symbolically firing the last shot of the war. However, she changed her target at the last second and assassinated the Interim President instead. In the ensuing chaos, the former President was either trampled to death by the crowd or choked on his own blood.
According to the Interim President, hundreds of the former President's accomplices were also awaiting death sentences at the time of his execution, but it is unknown how many of these were actually carried out, if any, under her successor. It is also unknown whether capital punishment was retained or repealed afterwards.