Finnick Odair was a male Career victor from District 4 who won the 65th Hunger Games at 14, making him the youngest victor in Hunger Games history. Known for his charm, exceptional skill with a trident, and popularity among Capitol citizens over his good looks, Finnick became a prominent victor in Panem in the years following his victory. Ten years later, he was reaped once again into the Third Quarter Quell, a special edition of the Hunger Games which had prior victors compete as tributes once more.
Finnick ultimately survived the Quell as one of its six survivors and went on to play a key role in the Second Rebellion, fighting alongside rebel forces. He was killed tragically during the Battle of the Capitol while on a mission to assassinate the President while attached to a squad. Before his death, Finnick married his longtime sweetheart and fellow District 4 victor, who later gave birth to their son.

He was born in a coastal district known for its fishing industry and strong tradition for producing Career tributes. Growing up in a Career district, he was raised in an environment that viewed participation in the Hunger Games as both an honor and path to glory. As a result, he at some point enrolled in a Career training program, where he was trained from a young age in combat, survival skills, and strategy to prepare for the Hunger Games.
At the age of 14, he was reaped or volunteered to be a tribute. He was mentored by a veteran victor. He would go on to ultimately win his Games. His success was attributed to a combination of his extraordinary physical skill and his widespread popularity among Capitol citizens, the latter due in part to his exceptional appearance. As a Career Tribute, he was well-prepared for the arena despite his young age. He demonstrated accomplished combat skills with spears and knives he initially collected. He also received numerous sponsor gifts during the Games, including a trident believed to have been the most expensive item ever given to a tribute. He used the trident in combination with a net woven from arena vines to snare and immobilize his opponents before delivering the final blow, ensuring his victory.

After his victory, his life took a darker turn. Like many victors, particularly physically appealing ones, he was sex trafficked, and his loved ones threatened with death if he didn't comply. The general public was not aware of this arrangement. In doing so, he gained many adoring fans and supporter amongst Capitol citizens. However, instead of money, he instead asked his "lovers" to pay him with secrets, many of which were about the darker intrigues of the Capitol elite. Despite these many lovers, he never cared for them and had only ever had one true love, a fellow District 4 Career he mentored during a later Hunger Games, which she later won and became victor.
As was expected of victors and particularly as a Career, he likely mentored and assisted in the training of a number of his district's tributes in subsequent years. At some point during his time as a victor, he joined a conspiracy involving officials and other victors, their goal being the overthrow of the regime and bringing an end to the Hunger Games.

With the announcement of the 75th Hunger Games and its special rule stipulating the participation of prior victors, he was again slated to directly participate in the Games. During the reaping, he was selected to be his district's male tribute. His district partner in these Games was initially his true love, but his former mentor volunteered in her place. During the opening ceremonies, he met another victor just before the Tribute Parade and audaciously flirted with her, informing her that his lovers pay him not with money, but with secrets.
During training, he noticed the other victor over at the knot-tying station and helped her finish the complicated knot she'd been having trouble working on. Being from a coastal district, he was particularly capable with knots. Later that day, he introduced her to his former mentor. During the remainder of the public training days, he gave an hour of trident lessons in return for one hour of archery lessons.

During his interview, he recited a poem to his one true love, making many in the audience faint because they believed the poem was about them. He, along with every other victor, joined hands at the end of the interviews as a sign of solidarity and rebellion.

At the start of the Third Quarter Quell, he was the second tribute to arrive at the Cornucopia. He quickly secured a trident and net and earned the first kill of the Games. He then surprised the other victor by proposing an alliance. Initially unsure, she accepted his offer after noticing a nonverbal signal. However, she remained wary and guarded around him. To further earn her trust, he set out to assist her ally, who was unable to swim. From that point on, they formed an alliance, and ventured into the jungle together.

During the first few hours of the Games, the alliance ventured through the arena jungle, growing exhausted from the heat and lack of water. Her ally accidentally walked into a force field, flinging him backwards and stopping his heart. He rushed over and performed mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, but in her panicked state, she thought he was trying to kill her ally. Ultimately she realized he was trying to save his life.
Their thirst became worse and they still had found no sign of water. He and his former mentor began to weave a net. They were deeply upset by the announcement of the first day's deaths but were distracted by a sponsor's gift. They discovered happily that the sap from the trees was a type of water, finally relieving their overwhelming thirst. He volunteered to be first on watch during the night.
That night, a poisonous fog appeared and the four tried to escape from it. He carried his former mentor, but the fog rendered her ally unable to run, and she struggled to help him. He helped by carrying her ally while she carried his mentor. The fog overtook her and she could no longer carry his mentor. He explained that he couldn't carry both his mentor and her ally; his mentor, knowing what must be done, sacrificed herself, walking straight into the fog. Her death allowed him to carry her ally, ensuring his survival.
He was both unnerved emotionally by his mentor's death and suffered temporary nerve damage from the toxic fog. She and her ally helped him recover. When mutts attacked them, he didn't hesitate and killed them with his trident. He was surprised when another tribute seemed to come from nowhere and saved her ally just in time again.
He took guard duty for the rest of the night and collected fresh tree-water and shellfish. When she was ready to wake her ally, he suggested that they both startle him awake. Taking his suggestion, she and he fell back on the sand laughing at her ally's reaction.

Soon after, sponsors gave the alliance a loaf of bread from their district. He was surprised by the arrival of new victors. The newcomers joined the alliance. Later, the alliance returned to the Cornucopia. The group was ambushed by the Careers; one of the newcomers died and he was stabbed in the thigh when a knife was thrown at her ally and he stepped in the way. He fought and injured an attacker before they retreated.
When he and she hunted for water, a jabberjay attack broke out, with the birds' voices emulating the tributes' loved ones screaming in pain. When he heard the jabberjays targeting him, he called out for his true love, a victor who went insane after witnessing her district partner decapitated during her Games. He believed that his lover was being tortured or killed, debilitated by his helplessness. She killed the jabberjay, but this didn't calm him, who was still unnerved by the thought that his love had been tortured to make those sounds. After he and she escaped the attack, her ally reassured the two of them that the Games are down to the final eight—and not only must the Capitol have family and friends to interview, but that those sounds could be faked. Another ally concurred, explaining that it would be easy to fake the sounds. The alliance viewed the faces of the tributes that died the second day. He suffered another night of restless sleep, occasionally murmuring his love's name.

He assisted with a plan, along with her ally, while she and another set up a trap. After the line was cut and another removed her tracker—in what seemed like a vicious attack at the time—he chased an attacker to get her away. She aimed her arrows at him, who reminded her who the real enemy was. Moments later, she destroyed the arena.
Afterward, he and others were rescued by a hovercraft. It was revealed that he and another were part of a plan to overthrow the Capitol all along. After she awakened she went to the room where he and others were talking. There, she learned about the rebels and the plan to overthrow the Capitol. He stopped her from attacking another with her nails. He tells her that he wished the others would just die so that they wouldn't have to suffer anymore.

He became deeply distressed, slightly unhinged, and unable to focus on anything but to save his true love, who had been kidnapped and was being tortured. One of the ways he kept himself sane was by repeatedly knotting short lengths of rope. When she first saw him, she called for him but received no response. She shook him, and he quickly stopped tying knots and gripped her hand in relief to see a familiar face. He asked why they were meeting here and she informed him about her role and her conditions. He was happy to hear about her condition for the immunity of victors because his love would be protected.
He visited her and had dinner with her. He comforted her since she was stressed, then the two watched propaganda. She asked him to shut it off but stopped when an interview with her ally came on. After the interview, he tried to calm her down and pretended not to have seen the interview. The next day, he and she went to the woods to hunt, discussing the interview together. After another interview, the entire district evacuated to safe bunkers before it was bombed. During the bombing, he gave her her own rope to distract herself with. That night, she told him her thoughts on the President's plan. He told her he was doing the same with him but with his love. He revealed the first time he realized she did love her ally and admitted he misjudged her.
Eventually, a rescue team saved his love, her ally, and the others. To distract from the rescue mission, he and she performed a live interview to be broadcast. During this interview, he revealed his backstory after his Hunger Games, where he was forced into sex trafficking. Upon hearing his story, indicating his promiscuity was just an act, she realized she misjudged him and regretted it immensely. He revealed that instead of money, he asked for secrets from his lovers. He also revealed that the President strategically poisoned political allies in order to remain in power.
He waited with her until they were informed that the rescue party had arrived. He and his love embraced each other and he took her to receive medical attention, as she had been tortured. They married shortly afterward and conceived a son.
He and his love met with her and others. She noted that he had not let go of his love's hand since their wedding. He was assigned to be on a sharpshooters squad with her and others. He suggested that her ally ask what was "Real or Not Real" when he couldn't tell himself. He helped the group retreat for cover and told them to leave a corpse since it would only get in the way. He also helped calm her ally down and voted not to kill him.

While on the mission, the group was attacked by lizard mutts. After she climbed out, she heard someone yell and saw him fighting with the mutts. However, he was killed before she could rescue him. She triggered a device to self-destruct. As he died, she relived brief moments of his life, including seeing a silver parachute, a trident, his mentor's laugh, his life on the seas of his district, and his love in her wedding dress.

After his death, his wife gave birth to their son.

Since he was a Career Tribute, it is likely he killed several tributes during his first Games and it is presumed that he killed the other Careers. However, it is not confirmed whether he joined their alliance. During the 75th Hunger Games, he killed two other tributes.

Forced and in order to stay popular, he put on a flirtatious personality, fooling many into believing that they held his affections. If he did not oblige, someone beloved to him would be killed; however, if he did, he would be rewarded greatly. His conquests were legendary and he was famed for being able to go through four or five people in each annual visit during the Hunger Games. However, his only true love was his fellow victor. During his last interview, he recited a poem addressed to his one true love; while many members of the audience believed they were the subject, it is implied that the poem was actually written about her. He also cared a lot for his mentor, who had volunteered to participate in the Games, instead of his love. He was close friends with another victor and fairly good allies with others. He became a closer friend to another victor later. He married and the pair had one son together who was born after his death.

He prided himself on his ability to make almost anyone desire him, and it was this effortless charm that has made him a favorite among Capitol citizens. He appeared to always be relaxed, smiling, and an open book.
He could make conversation with almost anyone. He was easy to please and entertain, and easily distracted. He himself would admit that he was flighty and shallow, although anyone who took the time to know him would discover that there he had more depth than he let on. While he got along fine with most people, when he cared about someone, he cared deeply. He was willing to put them ahead of himself and would risk his own well-being to protect his loved ones.
He was known for his frequent and varied sexual partners. When he came to the Capitol, he sometimes went through four or five lovers in one visit. For the most part, people assumed he did this for gifts or attention; however, he was forced to spend time with wealthier citizens and threatened to torture his loved ones otherwise. As such, he complied, but remained emotionally unattached to most of his trysts. His true love was his fellow victor, and he would remain monogamous to her under more ideal circumstances.
When they first meet, another victor viewed him as extremely flirtatious and noticed that he uses a "seductive purr" when speaking. She was unable to read his motives when they were in the arena, but believed that she would be better off killing him sooner rather than later, until he revived her ally. After he reunited with his love and subsequently married her, his true personality was revealed; she noted that he radiated life, had self-effacing humor and an easygoing nature. He never let go of his love's hand due to his fear of losing her again.

He was considered extremely handsome. He was tall, athletic, and chiseled, with tanned skin, bronze hair, and sea-green eyes.
In the arena, his enormous stamina helped keep the alliance alive, as he spent much of the first day of the Quarter Quell carrying first his mentor and later an injured ally on his back with little real effort. The only time he faltered was when the fog began to affect his arms. He was extremely skilled at close-quarters combat, throwing nets and fighting/throwing with spears or his specialty weapon, the trident. Being from a coastal district, he was also an excellent swimmer.
Another victor said that he never really needed to do anything to get sponsors as all he needed was his extreme good looks, and that no other could ever surpass his "natural beauty".

His distinctive style of fighting is based on a type of Roman gladiator, the retiarius, who used a net to entangle his opponents and a trident to finish them. Retiarii often had reputations as skilled fishermen, but not good fighters.
Of the six tributes that survived the 75th Hunger Games, he was the only one who died in the war.