Fire is an important motif that reappears throughout The Hunger Games trilogy.

During an arena bombing, a character was trapped underneath a burning beam but was freed. It was said afterwards that the bombing was just the kind of story that catches fire. Later, during interviews, it was said that a character could start a fire with glasses.
In a district, a group started a fire by a lake to roast fish. When a character returned there, running away, a fire was set in the hearth of an old concrete house. An old metal can was brought in hopes of transporting live coals from place to place.

In retaliation for a victor's actions during a past Hunger Games, a house was set on fire.

In a Tribute Parade, tributes were dressed in jumpsuits and capes meant to evoke fire. Synthetic flame was used, amazing the crowd. The tributes only felt a slight tickling sensation from the false flames, but their capes were carefully removed afterward and doused. Because of this costume, a tribute was nicknamed the girl who was on fire, which was eventually shortened to girl on fire.
For an interview, a tribute's prep team painted flames onto her fingernails and toenails, and she wore a bejeweled dress with a flame design. When she twirled, it gave her the appearance of being engulfed in flames. The nickname was popularized during an onstage interview. The tribute kept her fiery nails when she went to compete.

Long before dawn on the second day of the Games, a tribute awoke to another tribute setting a fire to keep warm. This fire drew a deadly alliance of Career Tributes to the location, who attacked and killed the girl. However, another tribute was able to cook meat over the heated coals. On the fourth day, a tribute was driven towards other tributes by a Gamemaker-created wall of fire; her calf was badly burned when they launched a fireball at her, and she received less severe burns on her hands. Smoke from this fire temporarily subdued tracker jackers that had nests in the area.
On the eighth day, a young ally set two signal fires to draw the Careers away from their supplies so they could be destroyed. The ally had also prepared the site of a third fire, but never set it. The tribute returned there after the ally's death to cook, and two days later, set another fire to confuse the remaining Careers. After another tribute died, a fire was set so they could cook. It was reasoned that their last opponent wouldn't follow it to their location while he believed they were in fighting condition. One tribute was said to be a whiz with fires, and was able to set one with damp wood.

On the first day of a Victory Tour, a warning was issued: that a tribute had been the inciting spark for rebellious sentiment and uprisings across the country, and that everything would be destroyed if it wasn't contained. When the tribute returned home for the last stop on the Tour, classified intelligence about an uprising was seen; in this footage, buildings were burning while banners with the tribute's face on them still waved from the rooftops.
On the following Sunday, a tribute went to a concrete house by a lake and set a fire in the hearth to thaw out. Chestnuts were roasted together and running away was discussed, but the idea of people rebelling was mentioned, invigorating the desire to stay and fight instead for those who couldn't flee.

Once a new Head Peacekeeper took over, a black market was burned to the ground. When a tribute returned to the lake, other characters were found who had managed to stoke a feeble flame in the hearth. The tribute helped build it up properly.
After a Quarter Quell announcement, liquor was drunk. It was said that it felt like fire inside, and it was liked. While watching a recap of a past Hunger Games, a volcanic mountain was described as spewing liquid fire.

At a parade, tributes once again wore dark jumpsuits, this time rigged with lights that flickered like fire over burning coals. A tribute was again referred to as girl on fire. Their costumes from the previous year had also inspired copycats in the other districts.

During an interview, a wedding dress burned away to reveal another design underneath, transforming the tribute into a mockingjay. In an interview right after, it was claimed that a secret marriage had happened in a district tradition: building a fire with your partner and toasting bread, then sharing it afterwards.
When launched into a Hunger Games arena, surrounded by water, the first thought was that this was no place for a girl on fire. Building a fire to cook meat was contemplated, but this was deemed unnecessary once it was figured out that things could be cooked by tossing them at the arena's force field. Later, the pain caused by poison fog was contrasted with the pain of fire.
When the force field was blown out, trees burst into flames, and the Gamemakers evidently set off fireworks.

A district was firebombed after a Hunger Games, destroying it and killing most of its population. Another district was also firebombed, including a field hospital that had just been visited. Capitol hovercraft were taken down with explosive arrows. A stirring propo was then filmed in the burning wreckage, declaring that if the districts burned, so would the Capitol. The finalized version of the propo incorporated audio of a Hunger Games announcer using the nickname the girl who was on fire.
In a propo forced to be made for the Capitol, war damage allegedly caused by the rebels was described. This included a granary that had collapsed after a fire. During a battle, a train caught on fire.
Weapons and war strategies were designed that involved fiery bombs. Twice-exploding bombs were used in a city bombing, killing a character. Another character was badly burned, requiring skin grafts, but also endured significant psychological trauma from watching the fire engulf a family member. The sight was haunting long afterwards.
While settling into post-war life, a character reflected on a relationship. It was said that a certain kind of fire, kindled with rage and hatred, was not needed because there was plenty of fire already. Instead, the reminder that life went on and things could be good again was needed.

Gamemakers' wall of fire and fireballs
Firebombs
Incendiary and explosive arrows
Twice-exploding bombs