Flowers appear numerous times in The Hunger Games trilogy— either as real plants seen by the characters or just references in the text— and in some cases they play a major symbolic role in the storyline.

Bee balm plants were in the 50th Hunger Games. However, the plant was modified to be deadly to anyone who inhaled its scent.

Primrose Everdeen named her cat Buttercup, insisting that his muddy yellow coat resembled the flower.

Katniss Everdeen sang "Deep in the Meadow" to Rue as she died, and the chorus mentioned "the daisies guard you from every harm". At the beginning of The Hunger Games film, Katniss also sang to Prim to calm her down from a nightmare.

Dandelions are a symbol of hope to Katniss Everdeen, and are strongly associated with Peeta Mellark. After Peeta gave her the bread that saved her family from starvation, Katniss saw him at school near a field of dandelions. Katniss and her sister also picked dandelions to serve as food when their father died and they were very hungry. She learned from her family's plant book that dandelions could be used for food. When Katniss threw the cookies Peeta's father gave to her after the reaping out the window of the train, they fell open next to a bunch of dandelions.

After she woke up from her tracker jacker venom-induced coma, Katniss had a bad taste in her mouth that water couldn't alleviate. She plucked a flower off a honeysuckle bush and used the drop of nectar from its stamen to refresh her palate. The taste reminded her of home.
Katniss recounted that the last time she'd sung "The Hanging Tree" when she was seven, her mother had gotten very angry at her father. Frightened because Mrs. Everdeen never usually yelled, Katniss ran off to her only hiding spot: underneath a honeysuckle bush in the Meadow.

Gale Hawthorne's little sister Posy is named for a flower. The word can also refer to a small bunch of flowers of any type.

Primrose Everdeen is named after the evening primrose.
When Peeta Mellark returns to District 12 after the end of the Second Rebellion, one of the first things he does is relocate five bushes of primrose from the woods and begins to plant them outside of Katniss's house in the Victors' Village as a memorial to Prim. It was this action that snapped Katniss out of the lethargy she had been in for months and she began living again.

Roses are the favorite flower of President Coriolanus Snow. Later in life, roses became something of an unofficial emblem for President Snow, as he frequently wore one in his jacket lapel.
During her time in The Hunger Games and during the Second Rebellion, the rose became a symbol that Katniss strongly associated with Snow, but specifically white roses filled her with fear.

When President Snow met Katniss prior to her Victory Tour, he wore a rose in his jacket lapel, and the smell was so strong that Katniss thought the scent must've been genetically enhanced.
Snow leaves a white rose in Katniss's house, which she finds when she comes back to visit her home after the bombing of District 12.
Red and pink roses (white in the film) were dropped after the bombing of District 13, which Katniss believed to be from President Snow, and like the white rose she found in her house in the Victors' Village, were there to upset her.
Finnick Odair later reveals that, according to Capitol gossip, Snow uses the scent-enhanced roses to hide the ever-present smell of blood that comes from his mouth sores; during his rise to power - and in an effort to keep it - Snow poisoned any potential rivals and often deflected suspicion by consuming the poisoned drink himself. While he possessed antidotes to these poisons, they didn't always work, so the mouth sores were a constant problem.
When in the Capitol, Squad 451 is attacked by mutts that smell like roses, and Katniss describes this type of mutt as one that incorporates a psychological twist to truly frighten the victim. The scent-enhanced roses worn by Snow are grown in a special room in the presidential mansion; white roses are the president's favorite, but red, pink, orange, and pale blue ones are also cultivated. Towards the end of Mockingjay, Katniss is in Snow's mansion when she finds herself in his rose room. The putrid stench of roses sickens her to the point of gagging.
The roses reminded her of Peeta because the same type of white roses were in the room during one of Peeta and Katniss's interviews in the Capitol right after winning their first Hunger Games.

Roses possess powerful symbolic meaning in real life. In the broadest traditional sense, they have embodied positive traits such as love and beauty, but as a writer, Suzanne Collins reverses this symbolism; within Katniss' experience, something that is normally pretty is turned into something painful and fear-inducing.

Rue is named after a yellow flower of the same name, which Katniss mentions grows in the Meadow, an area just outside her house on the outskirts of District 12.

Shortly before her Victory Tour, President Snow makes an unexpected visit to Katniss' new house in the Victors' Village. Acting the good hostess, Mrs. Everdeen offers him tea and a plate of cookies. The cookies were made by Peeta, as revealed by the beautifully frosted tiger lily on top of one of them.

After Rue was killed by Marvel, Katniss covered her with white, yellow, and purple wildflowers, both to cover her wound and in an attempt to show the Capitol that they were responsible for her death. She covered Rue's body and wound the flowers in her hair to make her look like she was really sleeping in a meadow. When they were returning to District 12, Peeta and Katniss walked down the train track, and Peeta collected a bunch of wildflowers to give to Katniss. Katniss did not tell him that these flowers were the tops of onions, which reminded her of Gale.
During his individual training session, Peeta painted a picture of how Rue looked when covered in flowers, an action which provoked the Capitol into giving him a perfect score, thus making him a target.