Force fields are invisible electric fields that are used to prevent tributes from escaping the arena and other places. It tosses anything that hits it back to where it was before, so tributes couldn't commit suicide by jumping. It was also used to protect Gamemakers from tribute attacks.

A weak spot in a force field is described as a patch of space that seems almost to be vibrating, as if the air is rippling in tiny visible waves, distorting the sharp edges of objects behind it.

One victor won by using the forcefield on the arena's generator to defeat another tribute by letting her throw her axe into it and watching it come back.

The first time a tribute comes in contact with a force field is on a training center roof, where another tribute shows how the force field works by holding out a hand and then sharply withdrawing when it zaps him.

While preparing for a later Games, two victors showed another tribute the weak spot in the force field between the Gamemakers and the tributes: a small wavering square in the air. The tribute assumed that the field was placed there because of a private session the year before, during which an arrow was shot in the direction of the Gamemakers.

On a roof, tributes played a game where one would throw an apple into the force field and the other would catch it when it came back.

In a later Games, a tribute almost died after being shocked by a force field, which was far stronger than the one on the roof, but was revived. Another tribute also hit this force field and was killed, as nobody around knew how to revive him.

A tribute threw nuts to keep track of where the force field was, discovering that it had them trapped in a small, symmetrical dome. Another tribute ate the roasted nuts, and a tribute figured out how to cook meat on the force field.

To destroy the forcefield around the arena, a tribute used a bow to fire an arrow with a wire attached to it. The arrow went straight into the weak spot just as a lightning strike hit a tree below, leading to the force field exploding and the remaining victors being carried out of the arena.