Gamemakers were people who designed and planned the annual Hunger Games.

Tasks
Training
Gamemakers observed the tributes over three days of training, culminating in private sessions. Each tribute would get around fifteen minutes to showcase their abilities. Then, based on their performance, the Gamemakers would assign them a training score that would be announced on television that evening. Scores ranged from 1 to 12, with 1 being the lowest and 12 being the highest.

Interviews
In the City Circle, the Gamemakers watched the tributes' interviews from a large balcony on a building to the right of the stage.

Arenas
From their Control Room, Gamemakers exerted their influence over the arena each year. They decided on the location, biome, plant life and wildlife, arena wear, weapons, and other resources available to tributes— both from the arena itself and the Cornucopia, drawing competitors in for a bloodbath. The Gamemakers also chose what the audience got to see on television from their many hidden cameras.
Additionally, Gamemakers controlled the weather inside the arena, like the temperature or precipitation. It was also within their power to trigger events such as avalanches, fires, and tidal waves. In the films, they could even make it seem like it was a different time of day within the arena than it truly was outside. These manipulations were usually intended to drive tributes together to fight for the audience's entertainment, but the Gamemakers occasionally killed a tribute just to remind the others that they could.

Muttations
The Gamemakers created genetically altered muttations to weaponize against tributes. Mutts could be sent out and recalled at will, presumably going to and from the catacombs beneath each arena.

Announcements
Whenever a tribute died, the Gamemakers set off the sound of a cannon, marking the death for the remaining tributes. The only exception was the Cornucopia bloodbath, in which case they waited until the fight ended to tally up the deceased. Every evening, they played the anthem and showed images of the fallen in the sky. This was done both as a recap for the audience and to help the remaining tributes strategize.
The Gamemakers would sometimes project an announcer's voice into the arena to announce events such as feasts, enticing tributes to gather and fight. They also had him announce rule changes.

Known Gamemakers
In the novel, there were around twenty Gamemakers, both men and women, dressed in deep purple robes. The Head Gamemaker could be identified because their robe had a fur-trimmed collar. In the film adaptations, all but the Head Gamemaker wore simple white uniforms in the Control Room.

Head Gamemakers
Head Gamemakers were under the scrutiny of the President to ensure that the Games not only entertained, but inspired fear, quelling any chance of rebellion. If the President was dissatisfied, the Head Gamemaker could face execution.