Addiction
Many characters in the series struggled with addiction. Victors of the Hunger Games often turned to substance abuse to cope with their trauma.
Morphling is a highly addictive drug similar to morphine, and addicts are commonly referred to as "morphlings". Long-term abuse of the drug can result in intense weight loss and yellowing of the skin, which is indicative of liver damage. Withdrawal symptoms include tremors and vomiting.

Asthma
A character died of asthma complications.

Avox
An Avox is a person whose tongue has been mutilated as punishment for treason. This mutilation prevents them from speaking, and it poses some difficulty for them when swallowing.

Black lung
Black lung is a respiratory disease caused by long-term inhalation of coal dust. The lengthened version is Coal Worker's Pneumoconiosis or CWP for short.
The condition was relatively common among coal miners who survived to old age.

Blood loss
A character died from blood loss after a hemorrhage while giving birth.
A character died from blood loss after losing his legs.

Burns
Burns were common injuries because they cooked and heated their homes with coal.
A character considered burns the worst kind of pain and was eventually able to treat one with a sponsor gift of burn ointment.
Characters sustained burns of varying degrees of severity in bombings.

Concussion
A character sustained a mild concussion in a bombing.
A character gave another a concussion by striking her. The effects lingered, making it hard to sort out thoughts.

Deafness
An explosion gave a character profound hearing loss, as well as impaired balance and bleeding in one ear. She was deaf in that ear for a period, after which doctors were able to restore her hearing in full.
Another character was said to be hard of hearing, presumably the result of age-related hearing loss.

Dehydration
A character was advised to find water right away in the arena, mindful that dehydration could kill within a week. She had seen enough tributes die that way.
Despite her efforts, she started to suffer the effects of dehydration on her second day. She had dark brown urine, a persistent dry patch on her tongue, a headache, light sensitivity, and eventually, fatigue. On the third day, she collapsed. She found water, decontaminated it, and waited before drinking.

Flu
Starvation deaths were often recorded as the flu.
Swan flu is an illness with symptoms that included a fever, chills, and a spiking pain in the limbs.

Heatstroke
A weather forecast included a heat advisory and tips to avoid related cramps, exhaustion, and stroke. A character later showed signs of heatstroke, pressing his hands to his head and panting heavily without sweating.

Hypothermia
It was recalled that in a year of the Hunger Games, many tributes froze to death at night, lacking wood to start fires.

Infection
An animal had an infected dog bite and was nursed back to health.

Blood poisoning
A character sustained a leg wound that got infected, giving him blood poisoning. Medication was used to treat him, and his condition was much improved.

Limb difference
Amputation
After losing his hand, a character refused a prosthetic replacement.
A character was bitten, leaving a gaping hole in his calf. A tourniquet was administered to prevent blood loss, but this resulted in the lower leg being amputated. He received a prosthesis.
A character stepped on a land mine, blowing off both of his legs.

Unknown cause
A character was described as having a crippled foot.

Limited mobility
A character walked with a cane.
After being electrocuted, a character used a wheelchair to get around. It is unclear whether this was due to paralysis or another health condition.
A character sustained a spinal injury and wore a halo brace.

Measles
A character was kept alive when he caught the measles.
A character had visible measles spots.

Mental disability
Characters had some form of mental or developmental disability.
A character exhibited confusion and a lack of focus due to old age, likely pointing to him having a form of dementia.

Hijacking
A character suffered from memory issues after his hijacking; he had difficulties with recall and telling his real memories apart from false ones.

Mental illness
Many characters displayed symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, such as nightmares, traumatic flashbacks, hypervigilance, and irritability. A character in particular was profoundly affected mentally by her experience in the Hunger Games. She also had trouble distinguishing what was real, but her condition was unrelated to hijacking.

Depression
A character fell into a deep, debilitating depression after a death, but was eventually able to recover. She later said she could have treated herself back then if she'd had certain medicine.
Another character fell into a severe depression after a death. She also developed a form of mutism from the psychological trauma.

Muttation
While most muttations appeared to be non-human creatures, characters once saw people with animal parts grafted onto them. Some of their conditions included small feathered ruffs around their necks, talons or tentacles in place of fingers, and gills embedded in their chests.
A character experienced unusual, snakelike side effects after being bitten by snake mutts. Her skin was peeling, the whites of her eyes were bright yellow, and she exhibited several motor tics: grimacing, jerking motions of the hands, and sticking out her tongue as a snake would. A patch of skin had sprouted scales, which were spreading.
Later, the yellow in her eyes had faded and she wore a high-collared blouse to hide her scales. While the severity of her tics had lessened, her tongue was still darting around inside her mouth, and she picked at dry patches of skin on her face. The scales finally started to fade, a process that could take as long as a year. While the scales weren't painful, they caused discomfort because they pulled on her skin.

Pneumonia
Starvation deaths were often recorded as pneumonia. However, a character once treated a starving child who was actually also suffering from pneumonia.

Pox epidemic
A district suffered an unspecified pox epidemic which killed many citizens and rendered a number of survivors infertile. As a result, the district's birth rate was flattened, leaving them desperate for more fertile citizens to help repopulate. People bore pox scars and some of their children were disfigured. It is unclear whether the children had been infected themselves, or if their mothers were infected while pregnant, leaving them with congenital disorders.
The epidemic had been a few years prior, and a leader lost her husband and daughter to it.

Rabies
During a war, the vaccination of pets became a very low priority. As a result, rabies was spread from dogs to people, killing many before a vaccination program got the disease under control.
A character was bitten by a rabid animal. As the infection progressed, he began to exhibit erratic and aggressive behavior. Since one of the symptoms is a fear of water, his mentor sent water bottles as sponsor gifts to drive him away from another character. He died after falling.
It was suggested another character also contracted rabies when the first spat in his eye, possibly explaining his own erratic behavior. Poisoning him was reasoned as a mercy kill.
Characters were once confronted by a rabid dog in the streets.

Sores
A character drank from poisoned cups to deflect suspicion, which caused him to develop mouth sores that never healed. He wore roses to hide the scent of the blood.

Starvation
During a war, the rebels cut off a food supply, leaving many people to starve. In extreme cases, some of those who survived resorted to cannibalism.
Starvation was very common, to the point where people often collapsed and died in the streets. However, the official cause of death would always be recorded as the flu, exposure, or pneumonia. Characters were near starvation, but received bread one day, saving their lives.

Tracker jacker stings
Tracker jacker stings commonly range from the size of a plum to the size of an orange, swelling up within minutes. The stings themselves are extremely painful and remain so for days unless treated. The venom was engineered to target the part of the brain that generates fear, causing strange and terrifying hallucinations that can drive a person to madness. Getting stung many times in a short period can be lethal.
When a tracker jacker nest was dropped on characters, one was stung three times, while others were lethally stung. Other characters escaped with their lives, but they were still recovering for days after.

Tuberculosis
A character suffered from tuberculosis, and succumbed to the disease. It was a treatable chronic condition in one place, but a death sentence in another.

Other
A character had an unspecified eating disorder that most closely resembled anorexia.
A character got a heat rash spanning across his chest and under his arm.
A character mentioned being sick with croup once.
A character received vials of morphling to treat her debilitating chronic headaches.
A character had chiggers—small bugs that feed on skin—causing a nickname. Nobody approached him for two weeks.