Heaven is a domain of the afterlife believed in by some citizens. It was believed to be inhabited by angels and good people. The plural form, "heavens," could also be used to describe the sky, or as an exclamation.

There was a tradition from a district, which consisted of sprinkling bread crumbs over the recently deceased while praying. This tradition was to make sure the dead person had enough food on their journey back to wherever they came from. The citizens performed the ritual whenever somebody died. It was considered a waste of resources and an example of primitive customs.

Multiple songs mention heaven. One song features lyrics about birds in the heavens. Another song was sung during a Hunger Games. Its lyrics about the sweet old hereafter reminded someone of the bread-sprinkling tradition. The speaker in the song muses about being on the threshold between the present and the afterlife, and having loose ends to tie up before going to heaven. In another song, characters say, "In heaven we all shall meet," when they can't find a trace of someone.

Heaven was explained as where angels lived, and that it was a good world for good people to go to after death. Someone thought the only winged being on their mind was the person who explained it. While reminiscing during a Hunger Games, they were unsure whether they would be able to be with that person again in heaven. After watching a broadcast of fallen tributes, they considered whether they had actually died already and what they were then experiencing was one of that person's worlds, where they continue to dream of life. After another death, they remarked that the person was gone to wherever people go when they die.

A song was sung as a dirge at a funeral. Someone was consoled by the song's implication that separation from family and friends was only temporary. Mourners followed up the song with a three-finger salute.

After certain political events, someone started getting better. They believed that a goal wanted by another in their dying breath had finally come to fruition. They considered that person to age alongside them, speaking to them and guiding them. They weren't sure how long their health would last, and was unsure how long it would be until they moved on from the old therebefore. They believed that nobody could ever take the person they loved away from them.

During an event, the only way to determine how much time had passed was by the heavens, the subtle shift of the moon.

Some individuals believe in an afterlife. Others do not believe.