Jackson was a rebel lieutenant from District 13 assigned to the sharpshooter propaganda unit, Squad 451. She was second in command. She lived in District 13 and trained alongside her new compatriots for several days before deployment. She was ordered to organize a two-person, round-the-clock watch on a boy due to his earlier hijacking and continued instability. She initially left another member out of the rotation, but was convinced otherwise, though she took watch with that member herself, mistrusting her. That night, she told the boy he could trust them because they were his squad, and he could ask them questions when he was doubting himself. In the morning, she devised a game to help him sort out his confused memories. When her commander was injured, she immediately tried to contact camp through her field communicator to send medics, but was unsuccessful, and she called for the squad to retreat. After the boy lost control, she was able to handcuff him. Then she argued over the ownership of a device; as second in command, it should have fallen to her, but it had been transferred to another member instead. That member falsely claimed to be on a special mission. She doubted the story, leaving everyone at a standoff. However, another member backed up the story, defusing the situation. She ended up helping the member learn to operate the device, and she kept her gun drawn on the boy even while he was unconscious in order to protect the group. The squad traveled underground through the sewers, at which point they were attacked by lizard mutts, activated pods, and Peacekeepers. She and another member stayed behind to hold the creatures off at a pod, attempting to buy time for the rest of the squad to make it to safety. It is assumed that she was either killed by the pod or the mutts. She was a middle-aged woman who was thought to look sluggish. However, she could shoot things that the other members of her team could not see without a scope. She claimed this was because she was farsighted. She trusted her commander a great deal. She was willing to add a member to the watch rotation when told to allow it, and despite her initial resistance to that member taking the lead, she begrudgingly accepted after learning that her commander had transferred his security clearance. Her distrust of a member caused her to behave coldly or harshly towards that member, but after her commander's death and the transfer of the device, she was more willing to work with that member and lend her experience. She showed kindness towards the boy when he was lucid, encouraging him to trust his squad and speak to them when he was confused by his memories. She also created a game, which would stick with him and another member for a long time. She even organized the watch rotation around making sure someone in each pair would be able to answer his more personal questions. She was the oldest woman in the squad.