Peeta Mellark
Katniss mentions she can never stop owing things to Peeta Mellark. When she was starving after her father's death, he burnt some bread intentionally, and endured his mother's wrath so he could give some to her. This moment of him showing compassion gave her hope to not give up in this dark time, and to carry on living. Though she wanted to thank him, she never did. However, their eyes met in school the next day, where Katniss held a dandelion in her hands as she and Peeta looked at one another.
They both became tributes of District 12 in the 74th Hunger Games after Katniss volunteered in place of her sister. During their training, Katniss refused to trust Peeta when he did nice things for her, believing it to be part of his strategy. It isn't until Peeta reveals in an interview that he is in love with Katniss. At first furious, she apologizes for lashing out at him, feeling guilty when she realizes that Peeta's confession would be of great help to her in securing sponsors.
In the arena, he joins forces with the Careers and encounters Katniss who is hiding in a tree. Peeta suggests that they wait her out, but then helps her escape after she drops a nest of Tracker Jackers onto the Careers. Peeta risks his life to save her, holding Cato off to secure her escape. After discovering two tributes from the same team district can win as a pair, Katniss searches for Peeta, and after she finds him on the brink of death, nurses him back to health. They spend several days in a cave until he's better, with Katniss risking her life to get the medicine needed to heal his leg. During that time, she kisses him, flirts with him, and even sleeps next to him in his sleeping bag, playing the part of a girl falling in love. Katniss and Peeta share a passionate kiss in the cave, which Katniss later admits to being confused about, as she experienced a 'hunger' that she had never known during this kiss, and feels it was the only kiss that they shared that was real.
After they win the Games, Peeta is heartbroken when he discovers that Katniss was mostly acting. There is a rift in their relationship after this, though Katniss admits to being confused about how she feels for Peeta, and fears letting him go and having to face the future on her own.
In Catching Fire, they reconcile and resolve to be friends, spending time getting to know one another. Peeta comforts Katniss in the night when she has nightmares, sleeping next to her during the Victory Tour and when they are reaped for the Quarter Quell. When Katniss is injured after falling whilst climbing the electric fence around District 12, Peeta helps nurse her back to health, carrying her around her home and sketching and painting alongside her. When they are reaped, Katniss and Peeta spend several days on the rooftops of the training center, enjoying the little time they have left together in peace and contentment, watching sunrises and having picnics.
During the 3rd Quarter Quell, Peeta is electrocuted after colliding with a forcefield, and his heart stops. Though Finnick is able to restart his heart, Katniss cries and screams over him, relieved that he is alive and terrified and broken when she believed he was dead. Later, on the beach, Peeta tells Katniss that he wants her to live, as she has a family that she loves and needs, and can have a future with Gale, giving her his locket which contains a picture of Prim, her mother, and Gale. Peeta sadly reflects that no one really needs him, and it is here that Katniss realizes that she needs him. That she would never be able to recover if he were to die, and she at least realizes the depth of his love, his willingness to sacrifice everything for her. It is then on the beach she realizes how deeply she actually cares about him and kisses him naturally and passionately, not for the cameras, but out of her affection for Peeta. Like their kiss in the cave in their first Games she wishes that she could shut out anyone who's watching and for once have a moment when it is only the two of them. He later gives her a pearl, jokingly referencing a comment that Effie once made to both of their amusement. Both the locket and the pearl become precious items to Katniss which she keeps by her side at all times. Peeta is eventually separated from Katniss and is captured by the Capitol while Katniss is taken by the rebels.
In Mockingjay, Peeta is gone for a portion of the beginning until about halfway through the book, in which he is only shown being interviewed. Shortly after the last interview, he advises Katniss to not trust the rebels. Peeta is tortured and beaten by the Capitol as a means of breaking and affecting Katniss. He returns after Gale rescues him, but has had his memories tampered with—or hijacked. While he is hijacked, he is driven to kill Katniss, but through the help of Delly Cartwright, Haymitch, and the doctors in District 13, Peeta is able to maintain his sanity. Later, while in the Star Squad, Katniss plays a game with Peeta called "Real or not real," and Katniss helps Peeta recover and remember his deep love for her. Peeta eventually grew self-aware enough to want to die because of the impulses he had to harm Katniss; on several occasions, he asks her to shoot him, give him nightlock, or just leave him to die. Peeta feared he would eventually overpower Katniss. When Peeta was in danger of losing control, Katniss, despite the danger to her life, kissed Peeta, snapping him back into reality, and begged him to "Stay with me", to which he replied "Always".
After Prim died, he went to her house and planted primroses around her house as a memorial to her sister, who died because of the exploding parachutes. Over time, Katniss and Peeta grow back together again, and one night, echoing a "game" that they had played while he was having trouble recovering his memory, Peeta asks Katniss: "You love me. Real or not real?" She answers "Real." Katniss expresses how she feels about both Peeta and Gale—that Gale was full of fire, and altogether, not the relationship she needed. Peeta, to her, was like, "a dandelion in the spring...signaling rebirth," emphasizing that Peeta is able to help Katniss heal and move forward, and that with him there was the promise that life could once again be good. She gives in to the 'hunger' that she feels when she is with him, and after reflects that she believes that "This would have happened anyways" indicating that Katniss finally realized how deep her feelings for Peeta ran.
In the epilogue, Katniss and Peeta have children after 15 years of being together, and they find a meadow to settle down in. Katniss and Peeta are still haunted by the memories of the Games but find ways to carry on living and cope with their trauma, living in peace with their children.

Gale Hawthorne
When Katniss was twelve, she met Gale Hawthorne in the woods. Their fathers had been killed in the same accident and they both provided for their families. Gale nicknamed her Catnip, after mishearing her name. They quickly became hunting partners, and they taught each other about their expertise. Gale comes to bid Katniss goodbye before she leaves to compete in the Hunger Games and promises to protect Prim.
Gale unexpectedly kisses Katniss in the woods, revealing his feelings for her. President Snow threatens Katniss that he will kill Gale and his family. Katniss is unable to say "I love you" back, only admitting she knows he loves her. When Gale exclaims, he doesn't want anything made in the Capitol, she believes he's referring to her. Katniss prevents Gale from being whipped after found guilty of poaching, but she gets lashed across the face while doing so. Whilst Gale is stabilized, Katniss stays with him and kisses him, bringing him back to consciousness. After the Quarter Quell is announced, Katniss distances herself from him, however, feeling uncertain about what she truly feels and not wanting to waste time on 'what-ifs'. Before leaving, Katniss admits to herself that she loves Gale on some level, albeit in the limited way she can offer. After the Quell, he tells her that District 12 is destroyed but her mother and sister are okay.
Gale tries to make Katniss happy as they get closer in District 13, and they fall into the companionable relationship they had in District 12. However, as Katniss fixates on Peeta's captivity and then later torture, Gale comes to realize that he can only ever gain Katniss's attention when he is in pain. A rift develops between them in District 2, where Katniss is shocked by Gale's methods in securing the District. Later, as they storm the Capitol with the Star Squad, Katniss and Gale fight alongside one another before Gale is captured and Katniss is injured in the firebombing before the Presidential Palace.
While Katniss recovers in the hospital, Gale does not visit. Later, Katniss believes the firebomb that killed Prim and the Capitol children was made by Gale. Though part of her wants to deny it, she feels she will be unable to ever disassociate that from Gale, and thus lets him go without a word. Katniss reflects in her head if she and Gale would have ever been truly happy together, or if "The dark, twisted sadness between them have grown up even without the Capitol's help," thus indicating that she feels something would have driven them apart eventually regardless of what they did.
Katniss settles back in District 12 with Peeta and is informed that Gale had gone to District 2 to take up an important job. Instead of feeling longing or anger, Katniss is only relieved, believing that Gale would move on like she would and forget about her. Katniss reflects that Gale was full of fire, much like herself, which made him unsuitable as a partner, whereas Peeta was like 'a dandelion in the spring' and that he alone could help her heal and move forward despite the sorrows of her life.

Primrose Everdeen
Primrose Everdeen was someone who Katniss loved unconditionally as she was also Katniss's younger sister. When she was younger, Katniss hunted and traded to make life easier for her sister. Katniss got Prim a goat for her birthday. Katniss took out tesserae but refused to let Prim do the same. When Prim was reaped, Katniss volunteered in her place but Prim did not want her to. Prim came to say goodbye to Katniss and made her promise to win so she could come home.
When Katniss is in the arena, she sees that Prim and Rue are very alike. As Rue dies, she makes Katniss promise to win the Hunger Games. Katniss remembers her and Prim's promise and tries to win for both of them.
Katniss tries to protect Prim from President Snow and reminds herself she's the reason she must go on.
Prim begins giving Katniss advice during Mockingjay. After Prim is killed in a bombing, Katniss falls into a depressive state and allows herself to waste away, losing the will to live. However, when Prim's cat Buttercup (whom Katniss always disliked) arrived back in the Victors' Village searching for her, Katniss snapped in anger and was able to release her grief over Prim's death, allowing her to heal and move on with her life. Peeta brings Katniss evening primroses and plants them around her house in memory of Prim.

Asterid Everdeen
Katniss' relationship with her mother is very complicated. After her husband died in a mining accident, her mother became mentally comatose for months, not even stirring herself to feed or support her daughters. As a result, Katniss essentially took over as head of the family, who would have starved without her hunting and signing up for tesserae rations. While there wasn't outright hatred between them, Katniss never completely forgave her mother for her weakness. After she volunteered as tribute in Prim's place, Katniss harshly reminded Asterid that whatever happened in the arena, she could not check out again and leave Prim on her own.
Following her victory in the 74th Hunger Games, the relationship between them improved; Katniss began to be less harsh with her mother, as well as see things from her mother's point of view. After Asterid was able to save Gale following his flogging, Katniss grew to appreciate her mother's healing skills in a new way. When the Third Quarter Quell was announced, and it was obvious that Katniss would be reaped again, Asterid helped her and Peeta prepare for the games, putting them on a special diet to gain strength and weight.

Madge Undersee
Katniss and Madge were often paired together in school due to having no one else. Before Katniss leaves for the Games, Madge gives her a pin with a mockingjay on it, belonging to her and originally her aunt, Maysilee Donner, who was killed in the 50th Hunger Games, to remind her of home. By Catching Fire, they become close friends. Katniss teaches Madge how to shoot arrows while Madge plays piano in return. Madge dies when District 12 is bombed, and Katniss shows deep sadness over her death.

Haymitch Abernathy
Haymitch Abernathy is Katniss' mentor in the 74th and 75th Hunger Games, and the victor of the 50th Hunger Games. The only reason that Haymitch decided to help Peeta and Katniss at first was because he finally got a pair of fighters that year, since both assault him when he doesn't help them. Both didn't like each other at first, especially during Training when Haymitch says that Katniss has the personality of a dead slug, but in the arena, Peeta says that Haymitch and Katniss only hate each other because they're so alike. To add, Haymitch decides to help Katniss out over Peeta because of the fact that Peeta was already determined to help Katniss out. Throughout the 74th and 75th Games, Haymitch sends (or doesn't send) supplies to Katniss to inform her about something happening or send her a message.
In Catching Fire, Haymitch helps Katniss aid Gale when he was whipped to her house with her mother and Prim. Haymitch and Katniss both get drunk after the reading of the card, which results in Peeta dumping all the alcohol down the drain. Katniss defends Haymitch, saying that she'll get some back. During the Training, Haymitch is disgusted with Peeta and Katniss after they directly threaten the Capitol (Katniss hanged Crane and Peeta drew Rue). At the end of the Games, Haymitch explains what he was trying to do in the arena and tells her that Peeta was captured, and Katniss scratches his face with anger.
Haymitch continues to mentor Katniss despite the end of the Games. After Peeta is captured, Katniss rejects Haymitch because she blames him for his capture. When Katniss rips her earpiece out, Haymitch scolds her and threatens her to have an implant instead, but in a large contrast, Katniss also goes to Haymitch for comfort. Katniss could not say that Thirteen was well and her too, so she starts to cry, knowing that she'll be hurting Peeta even more, so she turns to Haymitch because she knows he loves Peeta too. She sobs into his shirt, crying about Peeta and the rebellion while he holds her, saying that he understands just before she is knocked out. Haymitch also tries to protect Katniss from knowing Gale left to rescue Peeta the next day. Katniss tries to talk to him about Prim's death too, but accidentally rejects her because of his drunken state.
Later, Katniss, Peeta, and Haymitch begin to mend back together and Haymitch contributes the kids he had to mentor for the Games for Katniss and Peeta's memory book.

Effie Trinket
Effie Trinket was Katniss's escort for the 74th and 75th Hunger Games. Upon first meeting them, Effie annoyed Katniss in the first Games by saying the previous year's tributes were 'savages.' This caused Katniss to purposely use bad manners, such as wiping fingers on the tablecloth, to annoy her. Effie was all about dresses and looks, but she cried once or twice. Effie was thrilled when Katniss survived the first Games.
At the reaping of the 75th Hunger Games, Effie is seen crying for Katniss and Peeta when they are reaped, showing how much she cares for them. During the preparation for the Quarter Quell, Effie let Katniss make more of her own choices. Katniss felt bad she could not say goodbye and told Haymitch to tell her that she said goodbye. Katniss is shocked when Effie arrived before Snow's trial because she had been on the rebellion side. Katniss then realizes she does care for Effie.

Cinna
Cinna was Katniss' stylist for the Games and is said to be the only person she "really trusts". She is shocked by how normal he seemed.
Cinna consoles her before she enters the arena and says that he is not supposed to, but if he could, he'd bet on her. Katniss finds confidence in his words and thinks that maybe she should really try to win.
In her victor's house, there is a phone which had no use before she started to chat with Cinna about her talent. Since the only thing she was good at was hunting, Cinna suggested fashion designing. He took care of everything for her, including creating a book of sketches that she could show to the cameras.
Cinna designed many things for her, including her opening ceremony garment which sparked his theme.
Katniss feared for his safety before the Quarter Quell and as Katniss is in her glass cylinder, about to launch, the Peacekeepers enter and beat Cinna unconscious. This act causes Katniss to unhinge for a point, fretting that they will kill him for his design of her wedding dress. They drag him away and he is allegedly killed during interrogation. Katniss suspects this was just to throw her off guard.
Cinna had already designed her mockingjay uniform, knowing there would be a war. His last message to Katniss is written under a sketch of her pin: "I'm still betting on you."

Rue
Rue and Katniss have a loving relationship. Katniss meets Rue in the training center. Rue reminds her of Prim