Lenore Dove Baird was a Covey girl from District 12.

She was sixteen years old and her occupation was rebel. Her home was The Seam in District 12. Her gender was female. Her eye color was dappled green in the book and dark brown in the film. Her hair was auburn in the film.

She was a Covey girl. Her mother died in childbirth, so she was raised by her adoptive uncles. She did not know who her father was. She met another character when they were ten years old. At age twelve, she was arrested twice for rebellious acts. Since she was a Baird, she likely had knowledge of a previous victor but did not want to discuss it. She would add scraps of that victor's dress to her wardrobe as a way to honor her memory.

She was dating another character by the time of the 50th Hunger Games. She taught his younger brother about the stars. She gifted him a striker that she had designed. During the reaping, she and the other character were presumed safe after the four tributes were picked. However, when the last tribute ran away and was killed, a riot broke out. She tried to help his mother prevent Peacekeepers from taking his body away. The other character tried to protect her and was thus reaped to take the runaway's place in the Hunger Games. An official demanded that the area was cleaned up and ordered a Peacekeeper to kill her for her resistance. Another official intervened as he wanted to record her tears for the audience. However when they reenacted the reaping, she refused to cry for entertainment. At the conclusion of the reaping, a Peacekeeper was about to put her in handcuffs when her uncles bribed him to let her go. Although she wanted to go over to the other character, they led her away.

Shortly before the train left District 12 for The Capitol with the other character, she went to the hill nearby holding gumdrops that he had sent his brother to give her. She wailed at the wind and let out her pain as the train left. The other character watched out the window.

When training scores were released and the other character only received a low score, she performed forbidden songs on the reaping stage. Her performance drew a crowd of other discontented kids, so she was arrested and held on the Peacekeepers' base. After the tributes' interviews, an official arranged a phone call between her and the other character. She told him about her arrest and claimed she would be released; however, she was still incarcerated when he returned home two weeks later. Her uncles arranged for her to be released on house arrest, and she went to graze her geese in the Meadow, where she reunited with him.

Upon reuniting with him after his victory, his mother, younger brother, and she were killed as punishment for his rebellious actions during the Games. In her case, she was given a bag of red gumdrops, shortly after her release, believing it to be a bag he had left for her earlier. However, he realized too late that the new bag had been planted there, filled with poison. Despite their best efforts to stop it and call for help, the poison killed her. With her last words, she urged him not to let the sun rise on the reaping. She was buried in the Covey's secret graveyard beside two other Bairds.

As a result of her death, the other character drove away anyone who could've been considered close to him so that they wouldn't suffer the same horrible fate and became an alcoholic. He would've welcomed his death if it wasn't for his promise to her that he would somehow keep the sun from rising on the reaping. He spent weeks looking for her grave, eventually finding it with help and spent two days at her graveside. The story that people were told was that she died suddenly of appendicitis.

The other character told another victor years later about his girlfriend and his family being killed.

Following a later rebellion, the other character no longer found himself haunted by her. Instead, he saw her as having grown old beside him and he felt like she forgave him as he had at last kept his promise, or at least leant a hand. However, he believed she would tell him that he couldn't join her yet as he still had to look after the tributes he had come to love as his new family. The other character later told two other victors his story, about everyone he had ever lost, including her. He was content in knowing that the ruling power could never take her from him again, and they never really did in the first place.

She was good with animals and raised a gaggle of geese from their hatching. She believed that anything was possible and that you shouldn't necessarily assume that something would continue to happen just because it had in the past. She was quiet in public, and thus surprised the other character with how much she could talk in private. She didn't like singing in public. Even though she was patient when explaining things, the other character felt that she might be too smart for him. The other character described her as having a dark view on things.

She had dappled green eyes and her hair had a hint of red in the sunlight. She wore faded overalls and shirts that concealed snips of color salvaged from a previous victor's dress, and held a blue handkerchief in her pocket and a raspberry ribbon in her cuff. While performing in a mayor's house, she wore a faded green dress with an ivory hair ribbon and orange lipstick. Her voice was soft and haunting.

She and the other character first met each other when they were ten years old and introduced through her cousin. They developed a friendship and fell in love with each other as they grew up together. The other character was very protective of her, warning about her safety due to her history of getting into trouble. When the other character was reaped as a tribute, she was devastated and shared an emotional phone call with him on the night before the Games. When her death was orchestrated, following his win in the Games, he was profoundly affected by her loss, causing him to relapse into alcoholism to cope with his grief over her death, along with his family's. Though he was deeply affected by her death, he committed himself to somehow fulfill her dying wish to somehow end the Hunger Games. He is not known to have ever married, or even been romantic with another woman after her.

Following the victory of a later rebellion, he finally moved on from her death, having fulfilled his promise to help contribute in ending the Hunger Games, believing she was proud of him for his efforts. After recounting how he won his Games and lost everyone he loved, including her, to two other victors, he found peace and started raising geese in honor of her, believing her spirit had grown old with him and never left his side since her death.

In line with the Covey tradition of naming their children after a ballad and a color, Lenore Dove was named after the tormented man's beloved in a poem, and the color of a dove, which the District 12 school's dictionary described as warm gray with a slight purplish or pinkish tint.

She can play the piano and accordion, the latter of which she calls her tune box.