The following is a list of characters in The Hunger Games series, including the original novels The Hunger Games, Catching Fire and Mockingjay, as well as the prequel title The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes and Sunrise on the Reaping.

Main characters
The Hunger Games
Katniss Everdeen — The narrator, main protagonist, and District 12's female tribute, a strong-willed teenager trying to survive in the Hunger Games. She lives with her little sister Primrose (nicknamed Prim) and her mother. After her father dies in a mine explosion, she hunts to provide for her family. She promises her sister she will try to win the games, and she is able to keep her promise by later winning the 74th Hunger Games alongside Peeta Mellark.
Peeta Mellark — The male tribute for District 12, and the local baker's son. He is loyal and brave, and will do whatever it takes for Katniss to survive, because he has been in love with her since they were five years old. Katniss, however, has to act like she's in love with him in order to get sponsors which keeps both of them alive in the Games. Peeta is described as being medium height, strongly built and has ashy blonde hair.
Cinna — Katniss' stylist. A sly and witty man, Cinna is clever with his fingers and even smarter in his mind. His incredible designs for Katniss help her gain popularity with the audience. He is the most "normal" person Katniss meets from the Capitol.
Rue — The tribute from District 11. Small and meek. It was not assumed that she would last long in the 74th Hunger Games, but her knowledge of trees, plants, climbing and hiding keeps her alive. She can leap from tree to tree almost as if she had wings. She warns Katniss about the tracker jacker hive, and they later become allies. She is murdered by the boy tribute from District 1, Marvel. Rue had dark eyes and dark skin.
Cato — District 2 male tribute and the leader of the Career pack. He trained for the Games his entire life, and was described as a "ruthless killing machine". He was extremely strong and the tribute most likely to be crowned the victor. Cato killed the District 4 male and the District 6 male, along with many other unnamed tributes. He, Katniss, and Peeta were the last three tributes to face the wolf muttations who later killed Cato.
Foxface — Foxface was described as having fox-like features, and because of that, Katniss nicknamed her "Foxface". This red-head from District 5 is hard to catch. Though she doesn't have brute strength or knowledge of weapons, she could outsmart everyone in the arena. She made it to the final 4, then died by eating nightlock that was left out by Peeta.
Clove — The female tribute from District 2. She was very skilled with throwing knives, as she was the one who killed the District 9 male. She attempted to kill Katniss with one of her knives, but Katniss used her new backpack as a shield, so that the knife hit the backpack instead. Clove placed 6th in the Games, she went to the feast having Cato guarding her. She was killed during the feast by Thresh after she tried to kill Katniss. She was the only tribute during the 74th Games that got close to killing Katniss, twice.
Thresh — Male tribute from District 11. With the same brown skin and golden brown eyes as Rue, he was extremely resourceful and immensely powerful. His most notable act was that of sparing Katniss' life due to her alliance with Rue. He died shortly after, killed by Cato.
Glimmer — The female tribute from District 1 who was described as beautiful, sexy, and tall, with blonde hair and emerald green eyes. She was part of the Career pack and was killed when a hive of angry tracker jackers was dropped on the camp by Katniss. The District 4 female was also killed because of the tracker jackers.
Marvel — The male tribute from District 1, who was a strong and ruthless Career. He killed Rue, the female tribute from District 11, by throwing a spear through her stomach. He was then killed by Katniss, shot in the throat by an arrow and drowned in his own blood. He was Katniss' first direct kill (but not her very first as she earlier killed Glimmer and a girl from District 4 with tracker jackers).
Effie Trinket — The District 12 escort, who is a happy and bubbly person. She drew Primrose's (Katniss' sister) name during the reaping causing Katniss to volunteer as tribute. She wears many different colored wigs and helps Katniss and Peeta get sponsors in the Games. She constantly bickers and argues with Haymitch. Very proper, she hates it when people do not have proper etiquette.
Haymitch Abernathy — Haymitch is Katniss' and Peeta's mentor. He is drunk at almost any given time, with a glass in one hand and a knife in the other. He drinks to forget the memories of the 50th Hunger Games, which he was crowned victor of. He won during the second Quarter Quell, when double the tributes were required to participate in this deadly game. He promised he would sober up long enough for Katniss and Peeta to play the Games and help them. He sends Katniss sponsor gifts throughout the Games to help her survive. Katniss believes that his gifts always seem to have good timing and there might be some kind of connection between them.
Gale Hawthorne — The best friend of Katniss. She and Gale met when she was only twelve and he was fourteen. Both of their fathers died in the same mining explosion. Gale hunts with Katniss in the forest usually everyday, but in Catching Fire he only hunts with her on Sundays (before the 24-hour electric fence is put up) because he started work in the mines. Gale calls Katniss "Catnip," a nickname that was created after the pair first met. Katniss barely whispered her name when he asked her what she was called and Gale thought she said Catnip. Even though Katniss told him her real name later, he still calls her that.
Primrose Everdeen — The younger sister and only sibling of Katniss Everdeen. She was originally chosen as the female tribute for the 74th Hunger Games, but Katniss volunteered to take her place. She owns a goat named Lady, and a cat named Buttercup. Unlike her older sister, Prim has a heart full of compassion and she is a talented healer. She was named after the Evening Primrose, as mentioned in Mockingjay.
Madge Undersee — She gave Katniss the Mockingjay pin so she could wear it as her district token (although in the movie, Katniss receives the pin from Greasy Sae). She was Katniss' friend and the mayor's daughter. In Mockingjay, Madge and her family died from the fire bombing that destroyed District 12.
Catching Fire
Katniss Everdeen — Returns as the narrator and the main character for the second installment, facing new challenges. She is forced to show that she is in love with Peeta, and her desperate action at the end of the first Games was an act of mindless love. Unfortunately, she supposedly fails President Snow's inspection and is forced to get married to Peeta. But when she is forced to compete in the 75th Hunger Games, Cinna dresses her in her wedding dress for her interview, but because of his alterations, it burned and turned her into a human mockingjay. Katniss battles with her devotion to Peeta versus Gale, and remains undecided.
Peeta Mellark — Katniss' 17 year old fellow tribute, who later becomes her fiancé. Peeta volunteers to take Haymitch's place in the Quarter Quell, wanting to keep Katniss alive. During the Quell, Peeta runs into a force field and his heart stops, but his ally Finnick Odair restarts it by using CPR. Peeta is among those captured by the Capitol at the end.
Haymitch Abernathy — Katniss and Peeta's Mentor in the Hunger Games. Has an addiction to alcohol, and gets drunk to escape the world around him. He was the only living victor in District 12 before Katniss and Peeta. Haymitch is their mentor throughout The Hunger Games and Catching Fire. He is the one that sends the gifts from sponsors as well.
Effie Trinket — Katniss and Peeta's escort in the games. She is very strict, prim, and proper. She is noted for her odd clothes, wigs and her distinct capitol accent. She helps organize sponsor gifts alongside Haymitch to send to Katniss and Peeta during the games. At the end of the 75th Hunger Games, Effie is arrested alongside Katniss and Peeta's prep teams.
Gale Hawthorne — Katniss' best friend and hunting partner in District 12. He is nineteen years old, fierce, hates the Capitol, and wishes to start an uprising as the people of District 8 did. Katniss must pretend that they are cousins to keep him alive, or President Snow could order to have him killed.
President Snow — The President of Panem. He speaks to Katniss face-to-face for the first time at the beginning of Catching Fire. President Snow is described as having very puffy lips which was most likely from an appearance altering operation that is very popular in the Capitol. Katniss describes him as having a smell of blood and roses in his breath.
Finnick Odair — The male tribute from District 4. He won the 65th Hunger Games by using a net he wove himself and a trident he received as a gift from sponsors; District 4's trade is fishing. Finnick is described as being one of the most stunning, sensuous people on the planet. He is known for his attractive sea green eyes and bronze hair. During the Quarter Quell, a jabberjay recording of his one true love, Annie Cresta, screaming is used as psychological torture. Katniss was hesitant to make Finnick her ally, but he proved to be valuable when he helped Peeta off his plate and then administered CPR after he hit the force field. Finnick was a key person in the rebellion, as revealed to Katniss in the hovercraft at the end of the book.
Mags — The female tribute from District 4. She is around 80 years old and volunteered to take the place of a young woman, Annie Cresta, to spare her. Mags is one of the first people Katniss wants for an ally, along with Beetee and Wiress. Katniss observed that she can make a fishing hook out of anything. Unfortunately, while the group are trying to escape poison fog, Mags gives herself up without a question so Finnick could carry a wounded Peeta to safety.
Johanna Mason — The female tribute from District 7. She won an earlier Hunger Games by pretending she was a weakling until there were only a handful of tributes left, then showing that she could kill viciously. Katniss remembers watching these Games herself, so Johanna is fairly young. Johanna was captured by the Capitol at the end, along with Peeta and Enobaria.
Beetee Latier — The male tribute from District 3. He is very skilled with a wire, which planned to use to blow up the arena's forcefield, but Katniss shoots an arrow into it instead, and joins Katniss at the end on the way to District 13.
Wiress — The female tribute from District 3. Wiress often doesn't finish her sentences; Beetee often finishes them for her. Though very smart and able to figure out that the Quarter Quell arena acted like a clock, Wiress is killed by the male tribute from District 1, Gloss, when he slits her throat.
Enobaria — The female tribute from District 2. She is famous for ripping a tribute's throat out with her teeth during Games that she won. After she won her first Games, she altered her teeth to be razor-sharp and plated them with gold. She is a threat in the arena and is later captured by the Capitol along with Peeta and Johanna.
Cinna — Katniss' stylist, who risks his life to turn the wedding dress President Snow forced her to wear into a mockingjay outfit. He is captured at the beginning of the Quarter Quell. It is believed that he was killed during interrogation.
Mockingjay
Katniss Everdeen — The Mockingjay, the symbol for the rebels. She fought her way into the Capitol and ended the rebellion. She also killed President Alma Coin. She returned to District 12 after the war and eventually marries Peeta Mellark. Together, they have two unnamed children, a girl and a boy.
Peeta Mellark — Was in the arena with Katniss during the 74th and 75th Hunger Games, but got captured by the Capitol at the end of the latter. He was hijacked by the Capitol, but he was later rescued by a team. He loved Katniss since they were five years old. In the epilogue, he married Katniss, and they have two children, one girl and one boy.
Primrose Everdeen — Katniss' little sister, who helps keep Katniss sane when Peeta wasn't there. Prim worked as a healer in District 13 and planned on becoming a doctor, but died during a bombing by Coin's soldiers when a hovercraft dropped parachute bombs on a large group of Capitol children. When she rushed in with medics, she was killed by the second explosion. It was thought that the bomb that killed her could have been made by Gale.
Gale Hawthorne — Katniss' hunting partner and best friend. He loves Katniss, but they don't end up together because Katniss considers that the bombs that killed Prim were made by Gale. He ends up working successfully in the government of District 2. Katniss assumes he has plenty of girls to love there without her and he mentions that he has kissed many girls other than Katniss.
Effie Trinket — The escort for Katniss and Peeta during the 74th and 75th Hunger Games. As a resident of the capitol, she dresses oddly and has a distinct capitol accent. She is very strict and proper. She is arrested at the end of the 75th hunger games and is taken to prison. She is released when the districts win the rebellion against the capitol. Katniss is quite surprised at Effie being a rebel. Effie witnesses Katniss kill President Coin and returns home to the Capitol afterwards.
Haymitch Abernathy — A drunken former victor from District 12 who used to be a mentor for the Hunger Games. He helped in the rebellion and then returned to District 12, where he remains an alcoholic even though he wasn't allowed to be one in District 13.
Plutarch Heavensbee — He was the Head Gamemaker for the 75th Hunger Games, but was secretly working with the rebels to overthrow the Capitol.
Finnick Odair — Victor of the 65th Hunger Games. Originally from District 4, he helped in the rebellion against the Capitol. After Annie and Peeta are captured by the Capitol, he and Katniss help keep each other sane by tying knots on a length of rope. He marries Annie Cresta after she is rescued from the Capitol, but is sadly killed by rose-scented lizard mutts, in the transfer, during a mission to assassinate President Snow. Annie has their unnamed son after he dies.
Caesar Flickerman — A TV show host who interviews Katniss and Peeta multiple times.
Annie Cresta — Victor of the 70th Hunger Games. She went mad when she witnessed her district partner get beheaded. She won her games when a flood killed all the other tributes. She was the best swimmer there, so she survived. She is Finnick Odair's love interest and later becomes his wife. She is widowed when he is killed by Snow's mutts during a mission, and later gives birth to their son.
Coriolanus Snow — The cruel and twisted President of Panem, who died from either choking on his own blood or being trampled by the crowd. Katniss pointed out that no one cared, and it didn't matter.
Alma Coin — President of District 13. She was believed to have authorized the bombing of the Capitol's children, which killed Prim, Katniss' sister. Katniss assassinates her with an arrow during Snow's execution because she realizes Coin will be a horrible dictator as well. President Coin has gray hair which Katniss thinks may be a wig because it's uniform and there isn't a hair out of place.
The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes
Coriolanus Snow — One of the 24 mentors assigned by the "Academy" for the 10th Hunger Games. His family was once one of power in the Capitol, but has since fallen on hard times. He assigned to mentor Lucy Gray Baird, the female tribute from District 12. He becomes embroiled in the still ongoing conflict between the Capitol and rebels and must face matters of love, chaos, contract and control.
Casca Highbottom — The dean of the "Academy" and credited for creating the Games. Doped up on morphling, he has a dark secret in his past and seems bear a grudge against Coriolanus Snow.
Sejanus Plinth — The mentor for the District 2 male tribute. He is from District 2 himself and still sympathizes with those in the Districts. His father, Strabo Plinth, is a powerful war profiteer who bought his family a new life in the Capitol, but struggles against his son's rebellious ways.
Clemensia Dovecote — The mentor for the District 11 male tribute. She was the daughter of the Capitol's energy secretary.
Tigris — Snow's cousin, she has lived with the Snow family from a very young age. She and Coriolanus Snow are more like close siblings and she does his best to help him, but worries over him as the family's financial situation worsens and the fires of the Hunger Games ignite.
Lucy Gray Baird — The mentee of Coriolanus Snow. The female tribute from District 12. She is talented singer and part of a group known as the Covey. She makes a dramatic entrance into the Hunger Games and Coriolanus Snow finds himself falling head over heels for her.
Grandma'am — The grandmother of Coriolanus Snow. She sings the Capitol anthem "Gem of Panem." She doted on Coriolanus and often spoke of the Snow family grandeur. For his part, Coriolanus loved her, but felt she had lost touch with reality a long time ago. She grows roses in a rooftop garden. She is a regal woman who begins to descend into denial and eventually despair as the Snows struggle to mask their poor financial situation.
Volumnia Gaul — The Head Gamemaker of the 10th Hunger Games