Medications
Burn ointment
Burn ointment was contained in a first aid kit. It could be used to treat burns and was also applied to other wounds and stings, though with little effect on certain stings.

Charcoal tablets
Charcoal tablets were used to treat indigestion. They could also be used to counteract poison. Ingesting a large number of tablets could cause sickness but was effective for survival after poisoning.

District 13 injections
A series of injections could be administered to speed the healing of injuries like bruised ribs. The treatment caused a terrible, burning pain for days. It could not be mixed with certain painkillers due to dangerous side effects.

Morphling
Morphling was a powerful and highly addictive drug that could be taken orally or intravenously. It was administered as a painkiller, sedative, or mood stabilizer, and was abused to cope with severe trauma.

Poison antidote
A poison antidote was used to treat poison. One known kind took the form of a syrupy substance. Antidotes could counteract poison but sometimes could not prevent permanent damage from the poison. They were included in supplies for survival situations.

Skin ointment
A thick, dark ointment could be used to treat skin damaged by poisonous fog. It relieved itching and healed the skin beneath scabs, but had a strong, unpleasant scent and stained the skin.

Sleep syrup
Sleep syrup was a common medication. It had a distinctive sweet taste and was used as a sedative to render someone unconscious.

Snow coat
A snow coat was a coating of snow and herbs used to treat lacerations. It was meant to numb the area and relieve pain and could also be applied to marks on the face.

Tracker jacker leaves
A certain type of leaf could be used to treat tracker jacker stings and to draw out infection from wounds.

Unknown antibiotic
An unnamed medicine delivered via a hypodermic needle was presumably an antibiotic. It proved effective at reducing swelling from an infected wound. In an adaptation, a topical ointment version healed injuries overnight.

Other medications
An injection of black fluid from a hypodermic needle was administered for bites from mutts.
Sleeping pills and morphling could be prescribed after a breakdown.
A metal can of powder was given for a heat rash, with advice to keep the area dry.
Homemade wine was used as cough medicine.
Fever pills from a first-aid kit were used to combat infection when home remedies failed.
A first-aid kit could contain bandages and nausea medication.
Purple berries could be used as a sleep aid.
Rubbing alcohol was sold.

Other medical technology
A halo brace could be worn for a spinal injury.
A tourniquet could be administered to a badly bitten leg.
Doctors could repair hearing damage and remove scars.
Skin grafts could be administered after severe burns.

Mobility aids
A slim metal cane or a walking stick could be used when getting used to a prosthetic leg or for general mobility.
A cane was needed for walking at an advanced age.
A wheelchair was made use of after severe events.
A wheelchair was also used briefly when unable to walk due to a leg injury and concussion.