Messalla was part of a TV crew that filmed propos for the war as part of the Airtime Assault. He was the assistant of the director. He was originally from the Capitol, but joined the rebels during the Second Rebellion.

He traveled to District 8 along with the rest of the TV crew to film in the hospital there. He was seen scribbling notes, and later helped put together the propos.
When a squad was selected for a mission to go to the Capitol, the TV crew came along as well to continue to film propos for the war. To prepare for a shoot, he helped with makeup and set off smoke charges for the atmosphere. While they were filming, the commander triggered a bomb. The explosion threw him into a wall and knocked him out, but he was revived before continuing with the mission.
At one point, the team was forced to find refuge in an abandoned apartment that bore the same floorplan as his previous residence in the Capitol. He proved himself most valuable, since he knew where people would most likely stash food in the hidden storage spaces. As a result, the team found many canned goods.

Later in the mission, when the team was underground in the Transfer and running from the lizard mutts, he fell prey to an unnamed pod. He was trapped in a wide shaft of golden light that radiated from the ceiling to the floor. Arrows were unable to penetrate it, and he was completely still inside the shaft of light as his flesh melted off his body. The other members were unable to do anything but watch him slowly die. The director was greatly upset by his death, as he was her assistant and friend.
In the film adaptation, his death is similar, as he was hit by a beam of light coming down from the ceiling whilst the team ran through the underground car park. He ran into one of the light traps and was vaporized by the pod.

He was described as being a slim young man with several sets of earrings. His tongue had also been pierced, and he wore a stud with a silver ball the size of a marble. In the film, his appearance was much the same, except he also had several piercings in his lower lip and one in the bridge of his nose.