Mockingjay is the third and final novel in The Hunger Games trilogy. It is a science fiction, young adult, and adventure novel.

The fight cannot be avoided.
The damage cannot be contained.
The revolution is here.
The protagonist has survived the Hunger Games twice. Now a revolution is unfolding. A previously hidden district has come out of the shadows and is plotting to overthrow the ruling government.
The success of the rebellion hinges on the protagonist's willingness to be a pawn, to accept responsibility for countless lives, and to change the course of the future. To do this, she must put aside her feelings of anger and distrust. She must become the rebels' symbolic figure—no matter what the personal cost.

The protagonist takes stock of her new position as a rebel. Only a few victors were saved from the arena, while others were captured and taken to the capital and held captive. The protagonist is haunted by the ruler and fears for a captured ally's life. The book starts with the protagonist in her home district, which has been reduced to ashes. A hovercraft takes her to the rebel district where the survivors now reside. When she returns, she watches an interview with the captured ally, who calls for a cease-fire and is accused by many of being a traitor. This is why later on when she decides to become the symbolic figure, she asks for specific conditions. The rebel leader agrees to these conditions and the protagonist officially becomes the symbol.
The protagonist has to star in propaganda commercials for the rebel side. For one commercial, she and a team are sent into a district, where they see a hospital get destroyed. This inspires her to call for justice. During the airing of an interview with the captured ally in the capital, a rebel is able to gain control of the broadcast and air the propaganda for a short time before a battle for control of the broadcast breaks out. During the back-and-forth, the captured ally manages to send out a coded message to the rebels warning them of an attack. The capital then breaks into chaos.

The captured ally warns the protagonist of an impending bombing of the rebel district, after briefly fighting off a venom, which leads to him being tortured. A shrilling alarm sounds to evacuate the upper levels into the bunkers. As the protagonist is viewed as the symbol of the uprising, she composes herself and is one of the first to reach the bunkers. As time passes, her mother arrives, and they become wary of why her sister hasn't arrived yet. After much panicking, her sister arrives back to safety. Everyone waits in the bunker for several days until the bombing has stopped. The protagonist finds out during the bombing that the capital is using the captured ally and every time she says something against them, they hurt him. When she is looking above ground at all the wreckage after the bombing, she sees that the ruler has planted more roses. The protagonist starts crying when her camera crew tells her to say a short line for the camera, to show that she is alive and still fighting. Another victor explains that the protagonist knows the capital will hurt the captured ally if she does so. Her mentor tells her that a rescue mission was sent to save the captured victors in the capital. The rescue mission was a success, bringing the victors back. When arriving at the rescued ally's hospital room, she comes to embrace him, but in her shock, he almost strangles her to death.
The protagonist wakes up in a hospital room with severe injuries. She learns that the capital had used an uncommonly used technique known as hijacking in order to control and influence the rescued ally. The hijacking was done by giving him a dose of tracker jacker venom and sequentially showing him clips of the protagonist, therefore tricking him into hating her. The protagonist spends a significant period of time recovering. While she recovers, the rescued ally's treatment begins. After a short recovery, the protagonist asks if she can be placed into combat in the capital. She is reminded that all the districts have to first ally with the rebellion, and only one district is left, and she is allowed to go there.
The rebels fly out to the remaining district in order to take control of a huge mountain containing the capital's principal military facility. The rebels discuss how to take over the mountain. A friend suggests that they use special bombs he designed to blow up the mountain. The protagonist is shocked by her friend's mercilessness. The rebels decide to take the risk and blow up the mountain; the plan works, and the remaining survivors retreat to the center of the district, where the rebels are waiting. The protagonist gives an inspiring speech, asking the district to join the fight, but an unknown man shoots her from the crowd. She awakens back in the rebel district, suffering from injuries. She is informed that the district has joined the rebel cause. The protagonist and another victor become good friends whilst training as they recover. A rebel has an idea for a propaganda piece and allows two victors to get married. The wedding is a success. The rescued ally soon asks to see the protagonist, and she reluctantly agrees to visit him. However, she only stays with him for a short time before leaving in a panic.
The protagonist is angered when she finds that she hasn't been signed down for the assault on the capital as she wants to be the one who kills the ruler. A special rebel team is created to be the main rebel team that invades the capital. The protagonist completes her training and is assigned onto the Squad. However, her friend is not permitted to join. Angered, her friend tells the protagonist to kill the ruler for her.
The Squad has assigned members including the protagonist, her friend, another victor, and a camera crew. The rebels are shown a holographic map of the capital showing thousands of traps called Pods, deadly lethal weapons. The pods are strewn throughout the entire city and the team refers to it as another Hunger Games, because of the Pods' Hunger Games-inspired design. Hundreds of soldiers prepare for the final battle, and the squad leader is given a device which shows where the pods are located. As the Squad advances through a safe capital neighborhood, they accidentally trigger a pod which kills a member. To the Squad's surprise, the rescued ally is sent as a replacement as he has recovered quite a bit from the hijacking, but is still unstable.

After the rescued ally's arrival, the squad leader makes a call about his being in the squad. When he returns, he says that he believes the rebel leader sent the ally personally to kill the protagonist since after the war, a new leader will be chosen and the protagonist, having a lot of influence as the symbol, will be a threat. To make sure she is still all powerful, the rebel leader sends the ally to the Squad, hoping he would kill her. The protagonist starts to treat the ally very rudely. But only after a call from her mentor, who tells her to reverse the situation in her head, she realizes that she was wrong to be hostile and rude. The protagonist starts trying to help the ally remember his former memories. The Squad creates a game to help him separate the hijacked memories from the real ones.
As the Squad move a little further into the capital, they decide to film a propaganda piece. They set two pods off safely and take a break from filming. During the next shoot, the squad leader hits a mislabeled pod that blows off his legs. At the same time, another pod is activated, creating a black wave that begins to advance onto the squad. While trying to move the squad leader to an apartment to escape the wave, the ally has an episode and nearly kills the protagonist. When a member of the squad tries to pin him down, the ally accidentally kills him. Inside the apartment, the squad leader transfers the device to the protagonist and dies after giving her orders. The protagonist tells the team that she is on a secret mission to kill the ruler on the rebel leader's order. A crew member backs up the protagonist's story. The squad hesitates but reluctantly helps the protagonist operate the device.
They walk to an abandoned apartment. They all sit down. The TV soon turns on to inform the nation that the protagonist, and the rest of the Squad are dead. The protagonist doesn't realize that the ally had regained consciousness and saw himself attacking her and killing a squad member on the TV. The ally suggests that they kill him, but the protagonist won't allow it. After they find food to eat, the ruler comes on the TV and informs the nation that the protagonist was just a girl, not a leader. Back in the rebel district, a rebel hijacks the signal and broadcasts the rebel leader instead, who gives a speech of her own.
The grace period of the capital thinking that the Squad is dead gives a head start for the protagonist, now leading the team. The Squad has a limited period of time before the capital realizes that they are still alive. They start looking for a way out. The team then decides to head into the sewers with the help of a crew member, who used to work there. He navigates the Squad underground. While they sleep, the protagonist can hear strange voices calling her name. The team awakens and the ally shouts a warning to the protagonist, telling her to run as mutts are approaching. They run through an area, avoiding the pods strewn about, but a crew member sets one off, causing him to get caught and killed. The team members force themselves to move on, but they are attacked by lizard mutts, and are forced to fight. Peacekeepers come to try and kill the squad, but they are killed by the lizard mutts. The protagonist sets a pod off deliberately in an attempt to kill most of the mutts whilst they retreat to the surface. Two squad members stay behind, sacrificing themselves so that the others can escape. Two others are also killed by the lizard mutts. The squad makes it to the surface, but the protagonist sees a victor get killed by the lizard mutts. The protagonist uses the device as an explosive. She throws it into the sewers, killing the mutts but destroying the device.
The Squad are shaken by the many deaths. The squad keeps climbing further and further towards the surface until they reach an apartment where they take shelter. Once inside they find a woman, but before she can alert any capital forces, the protagonist kills her. Now, in the heart of the capital, they need to hide until the rebels advance further. As they move through the streets of the capital, they find themselves right in the heart of the capital streets and are at a risk of being seen. A crew member leads them to a shop owned by an old friend. She agrees to keep them safe and feed them. The team manages to stay in the cellar, where they stay for a couple of days and watch the rebels advance. The capital and the rebels are now engaged in a full-scale war. One night, while everyone sleeps, the protagonist hears the ally and her friend having a conversation about her which upsets her. The next morning, the shop owner heads out to try and gather information. She returns in the evening with food for the squad and informs them that the capital citizens have been forced out onto the streets while the war carries on. She then shows them a television broadcast in which the ruler announces that he is opening the mansion to all capital refugees. The protagonist realizes they need to make use of the flood of refugees in the center of the capital. At first, the others are wary of the plan, but they decide to go forward with it. The squad plans out their course of action. While waiting, capital citizens are sent further into the city. With help, the squad dresses in capital clothing to blend in with the crowd.
They thank the shop owner for her help and leave the shop and walk into the streets. They become split up in the process, leaving the protagonist and her friend together, but a riot ensures, and the rebels start attacking the two, causing the capital to fight back. Countless civilians are killed in the crossfire, and the protagonist witnesses a young girl get shot. They know they must keep moving, otherwise they'll be killed or identified, so they keep moving, running through the streets avoiding gunfire. Her friend manages to get a gun, and the protagonist keeps her bow hidden. They see a pod activate, which sends a purple beam of light down a street, causing everyone caught in it to bleed to death. Another pod activates, causing another street to split down the middle into a crevice below. Many people fall into the pit and the protagonist and her friend become separated. He almost escapes, but he is captured and orders the protagonist to shoot him, but she can't bring herself to do so.
As the protagonist flees further into the capital with the intent of finding and killing the ruler, she finds herself pressing on alone towards the mansion, which has supposedly been opened to shelter children. A huge crowd of young children are huddled behind a barricade as the protagonist watches a hovercraft marked with the capital seal drop dozens of parachutes down on the children, containing supplies. As the children collect the parachutes, bombs placed in the supply packages explode and kill many of them. As the protagonist and the crowd watch in horror, rebel medics arrive and start to break through the barricade in order to help the children. Then, the protagonist notices her sister in the crowd of children helping. She rushes towards the barricades, shouting her sisters name. Her sister hears her and turns to see her running towards her. As the protagonist gets nearer to the barricade, a second wave of bombs go off, sending her hurtling through the air and killing many more children, including her sister.
The protagonist is transferred to the ruler's mansion, now that the rebels have finally taken control over the capital, but she is severely burned and has been diagnosed with depression. She doesn't speak and wanders around the mansion alone, eating very little and consuming large amounts of a drug. While on the drug, the dead visit her, including her sister. Her mother takes care of her, but neither of them speak.
The ruler is tried of crimes and is found guilty. One day, the protagonist ventures into the rose garden surprised to find that it is where the ruler is being kept. She picks a rose for him to wear at his execution. They sit down to talk, although she says few words. He apologizes for the death of her sister, but he tells her that the final assault that killed her sister was ordered by the rebel leader, not the capital. The protagonist realizes that if this is true, the bombing may have been the result of a plan originally developed by her friend. She doesn't know what to believe or who to trust.
The rebel leader holds a meeting with all the remaining victors. She decides they should hold a vote to see if they should hold another Hunger Games consisting with the children from those who had most power in the capital. Votes are cast. The protagonist votes yes, saying that it would be for her sister. Her mentor agrees with her. The protagonist gives the rebel leader the rose to give to the ruler.
On the day of the ruler's execution, everyone in the mansion prepares. The protagonist is surprised by her old prep team, who dress her into her symbolic outfit. Everyone leaves to go to the execution, and thousands of people stand and watch. The protagonist sees the ruler wearing the rose tied to a post, the rebel leader announces the execution and the crimes. The protagonist loads her arrow.
She remembers a conversation with the ruler in which they promised not to lie to each other. She realizes that the ruler was telling the truth about the rebel leader ordering the children to be killed, knowing that by sending her sister into battle she would be killed by the bombings, making the protagonist unstable and the rebel leader the next suitable candidate. When she is supposed to execute the ruler, she kills the rebel leader instead. A riot ensues and the ruler begins laughing, choking up blood. He is found mysteriously dead. The protagonist is acquitted due to her apparent insanity along with testimony to justify her action, which helped reclaim her reputation as a hero. She and her mentor return to their home district. Her mother moves to another district as home has too many sad memories. Two crew members are sent out into the districts to help people affected by the war. A victor gives birth to her deceased lover's son. The ally returns months after the protagonist and her mentor arrived, having recovered immensely from his brainwashing. Finally, the protagonist understands that falling in love with the ally was inevitable, as he had always represented the promise of a better future. Together with her mentor, they create a book filled with the stories of the previous tributes and others who died in the war so that they will not be forgotten. At the end, the protagonist and the ally play a last game. The ally asks, "You love me? Real or not real?" The protagonist replies without hesitation and whispers, "Real."
In the epilogue, the protagonist speaks as an adult, more than fifteen years later. She and the ally grow back together. They have two children together. The Hunger Games are over, but she dreads the day her children's innocent world will be shattered by learning the details of their parents' involvement in both the Games and the war. When she feels upset, she takes to reminding herself of every good thing that she has ever seen someone do.