The monkey mutts were primate muttations used in the 75th Hunger Games.

Toxic fog dissipated around three o'clock in the morning on the second day of the Games. Soon after, a tribute spotted two monkeys and pointed them out to allies. Unlike most mutts, the monkeys did not immediately attack, and the tributes watched the monkeys for a while before retreating to the beach to purge the poison by soaking in salt water. When they returned to the jungle to tap a tree for water, one tribute realized that the monkeys had assembled in greater numbers. She tried not to alert another tribute of their presence because she knew eye contact was a sign of aggression, but he realized they were there and looked up.

At this point, it became clear that the monkeys were mutts due to their peculiar adaptations. The tributes held them off, but since there were so many, one tribute ran out of arrows. She called to another tribute, who had another sheath for her, but one mutt took the opportunity to lunge at his chest. She threw a knife and missed, so she ran towards him to intervene, but another tribute got there first, and the monkey sank its fangs into her instead.

A tribute killed the monkey that had attacked the other tribute and readied to fight off more, but the mutts withdrew into the jungle; it was figured that the Gamemakers had called them off. The tribute then carried the fallen tribute onto the beach, laid her down on the sand, and talked to her about painting— something she had shown interest in during training— until she died.
Later, it was realized that the arena was a clock, with a new threat in a particular section every hour. The monkeys were triggered at three o'clock and left at four.

In the film adaptation, the tribute was bitten in the neck instead of her chest. Rather than staying on the sand of the beach, she was taken out into the water and told to focus on the colors of the sky, giving her a sense of peace as she bled to death.

The mutts were tree-climbing monkeys with orange fur, about half the size of an adult human. They had sharp fangs, as well as claws that came out like switchblades. They were also incredibly fast, and they could jump unnaturally far. It was described that there were "scores" of them, indicating that the mutts were in a large troop.

In the film, the mutts had the body of a drill and the coloration of mandrills.