Mrs. Plinth, also referred to as Ma Plinth, was the mother of Sejanus Plinth, one of the mentors of the 10th Hunger Games. She and her son moved to the Capitol from District 2 after the Dark Days.

She was born and raised in District 2 alongside her sister. She later married and had a son several years before the Dark Days began. During the war, she always forced her son to drink posca. The first time the family arrived in the Capitol, she was anxious and thought it a disaster, but was calmed down by her young son. She had only brought a handful of things from District 2, which she later set up in a corner of her new kitchen. After her move, the only person from District 2 who kept in touch was her sister.

Before her son headed to the Capitol Zoo where the tributes were being held, she made sandwiches for each of the tributes. When a mentor was injured in the bombing of the Capitol Arena, she baked a homemade casserole and took it to their apartment. Following the interviews for the Games, she was introduced to that mentor, who thanked her for the casserole, but she thanked him in return for being a friend to her son.

The first night of the Games, she went to that family's penthouse after her son hadn't come home. She was very worried, but upon turning to leave, she saw her son on-screen in the arena. She explained that he was sprinkling bread crumbs on the dead body of his tribute. After a call, she and the other mentor went to the arena to collect her son. She apologized for her son and refused to let the other mentor enter the arena himself. However, when he did, he told her son that she was waiting for him, and he eventually agreed to come. As thanks, she gifted him food.

The other mentor visited the family the third night of the Games, catching her in the kitchen. She offered him milk, blackberry pie and ice cream before he headed up to talk to her husband.

When her son was sent to become a Peacekeeper in District 12 along with the other mentor, she sent them packages of baked goods. Because of them, the boys and their bunkmates were able to trade for luxuries. She also sent the other mentor a separate letter, thanking him for all he had done and requesting that he continue to keep an eye on her son.

After the other mentor returned home from District 12 and she learned of her son's hanging, she and her husband moved into the apartment below the other family's. She came by daily to help, acting as a maid. On the day that would have been her son's nineteenth birthday, the other mentor returned his box of personal possessions to her and her husband.

After the interviews, she was seen in an expensive flowered dress. She was later referred to as "frumpier than ever" and "pathetic" by the other mentor after she arrived at their place when her son had gone missing. Often, she was seen clutching a handbag, the contents of which are unknown, with the exception of handkerchiefs that she used to wipe her tears upon getting emotional.

She was a loving mother towards her son, and she extended her kindness to his only friend. She was also a skilled cook; the other mentor described her as "something of an artist in the kitchen" during a visit to the family's apartment.