Muttations, or simply mutts, are genetically modified animals created for use as weapons, both in conflicts and within arenas.

Known mutts include Jabberjays, which are a type of exclusively male bird that was created to eavesdrop on enemies. They had the ability to memorize and reproduce whole human conversations. Eventually they died off, but not before mating with female mockingbirds to produce a whole new species, the mockingjay.

Mockingjays are accidental muttations that were created when female mockingbirds mated with male jabberjays. They pick up songs very quickly by imitating the pitch of a human's voice and can relay them back and forth. Since they were not meant to exist, they are viewed as a symbol of rebellion.

Tracker jackers are deadly wasps that are larger than regular wasps. Their stings raise large lumps on their victims, and their venom causes hallucinations that can drive people to madness. More than a few stings can kill a person. These mutts will hunt down anyone who disturbs their nest.

In one Games, a pack of wolves was released. Each one resembled a tribute who had died, wearing a collar marked with a district number, and they had remarkably human eyes.

One arena contained a mutated species of monkey with fangs and claws that came out like switchblades. They used their claws and teeth to make deep punctures that could cause internal bleeding.

During a battle, lizard mutts attacked. The mutts were white with clawed hands and feet, long reptilian tails, and powerful jaws, which they used to kill their victims by biting their necks. They gave off a strong scent and hissed a name. They were very durable.

Snake mutts were of various bright colors. They could not see too well and could hear even less, but were bred to have a more acute sense of smell. Their venom was lethal, but one could recover if antivenom was administered quickly.

In addition to snakes, there was at least one rabbit muttation. It was modified to have great jaw strength.

One arena featured a number of dangerous mutts, several of which were programmed to target specific tributes. These included stinging butterflies that caused severe pain; bats with transparent wings and curved claws; golden, fluffy, carnivorous squirrels who attacked in packs; baby deer with spiked hooves; fox mutts; ladybugs that were disguised as berries and would explode; a massive porcupine with poisonous quills; and waterbirds with long, piercing beaks.

Other muttations have included weasel mutts; shiny beetles that suffocated tributes; an unidentified mutt that ripped apart a tribute; a large quantity of clicking insects; muttation gnats; and flesh-eating rats.

The name is a portmanteau of the word "mutt", meaning a mixed breed animal, and "mutation", which refers to heritable changes to genes.