Most important for the people of 13, it was the center of the Capitol's nuclear weapons development program. During the Dark Days, the rebels in 13 wrested control from the government forces, trained their nuclear missiles on the Capitol, and then struck a bargain: They would play dead in exchange for being left alone. The Capitol had another nuclear arsenal out west, but it couldn't attack 13 without certain retaliation. It was forced to accept 13's deal.

The nuclear weaponry was centered in District 13. The country's nuclear arsenal was presumably a large one, as they dedicated an entire district to it. There was also a nuclear arsenal in the west. Students in District 13 had to attend a class entirely dedicated to learning about nuclear history.

Before the Dark Days, District 13's main industry was nuclear development and military arms production. However, this was kept secret, and the Capitol instead spread information about the district residents being primarily graphite miners. While the district did mine graphite on a small scale, their main industry was nuclear weapons development and the production of military weapons. This allowed the district to become the primary benefactor to the rebel war effort during the First Rebellion, which lasted for three years. While the thirteen districts were initially able to stand strong and cut off the Capitol from all outside support during the final two years of the war, the tide turned in favor of the Capitol during the closing phase, presumably after a failed invasion of the Capitol.
During the Dark Days, rebels from District 13 used the Capitol's nuclear missiles against them. Without adequate weaponry to fight back, the Capitol was forced to allow District 13 to secede. While District 13 had the option of defeating the Capitol with nuclear weapons, they chose not to, as their actions could have wiped out nearly all of the population.
In the Second Rebellion, the Capitol chose not to attack District 13 using nuclear missiles. It was explained that these weapons would release radiation into the atmosphere, affect the environment, and badly damage the military compound.