The Panem flag is the symbol of the country of Panem.

The earliest known version of the Panem flag had a solid crimson backdrop with a stylized gold eagle on it. The bird had its wings spread and its head was turned over its right shoulder, facing the flag's left. The eagle was surrounded by a circle of thirteen 4-pointed stars. When displayed as a banner, it had a gold border and twelve gold stripes going down from the top vertically, guiding the viewer's eye down to the eagle emblem.

The next known iteration of the flag consisted of a red banner with a similar, but altered, stylized gold eagle at its center. It looked in the same direction as the old flag, but it held four arrows in each of its feet, pointing to the left and right, and it was surrounded by a gold laurel of barley. This flag was in use through the period of the Hunger Games.

Following the overthrow of the regime at the end of the Second Rebellion, the new government adopted a different flag. This flag possesses a navy blue banner, with a gold circle at its center with rising chevrons above it. At its base is a banner is emblazoned with the nation's name. Surrounding it is a gold olive branch laurel, which is in turn surrounded by fourteen stars.

During one Hunger Games, the old Panem flag was strung from the stands in the arena. A tribute cut off a scrap of the flag's fabric. The audience was upset by his disrespect for the national symbol. The scrap was used to protect from the sun, and later to bind a wound. The tribute cut a second piece off the main flag to cover up the tributes' bodies, which he had begun to gather. He reclaimed the scrap and wore it as a cape. He later used another piece of the flag to cover bodies. Another tribute began to remove these scraps in order to tempt him. His final act was to collapse and try to cover himself and the others with the flag.

In a film adaptation, a tribute began to gather the bodies of tributes. He tore the flag down from the stands without tearing it and laid it over them. When he was done, he stood in front of it with his arms spread out, looked up at a camera, and directly challenged the authorities.

During a reaping, a kerosene-soaked, burning, smoking flag of Panem was pulled from under the temporary stage. A person was arrested for the crime, but later let go, even though she was secretly guilty.
A flag of Panem was set up at a window. This irked a person, until he was told that the authorities forced them to hang the flag up.

A seal was a recurring symbol that represented the capital. It was never described in the novels, but in the films, it was adapted as a separate symbol from the national flag. However, it had the same eagle holding arrows in its talons, and the barley laurel was also present.

The films gave each district its own seal.

A seal was first mentioned after the arrival of an authority figure in a district, when the seal of Panem was hung from the roof of a building. This implies it represented the capital's power over the districts.

A statue of a woman holding crossed swords above her head was designed. Alongside design studies, she was referred to as Panema.

The thirteen stars on the old Panem flag could either represent the original thirteen districts, or the twelve remaining districts and the capital. The fourteen stars on the post-Second Rebellion flag suggest that the thirteen districts and the capital are all united and equal.
In an illustrated edition, the flag is depicted as one large star surrounded by twelve smaller dots, representing the capital's power over twelve districts.
The old Panem flag bears some similarity to a historical flag. It had a circle of thirteen white stars within a blue rectangle, like the stars around the Panem eagle.
The eagle motif on the first two flags is very similar to a national seal, which features an eagle holding an olive branch and arrows. The olive branch traditionally symbolizes peace, so the fact that the Panem eagle only held arrows likely represents a perpetual state of war and conflict.
The eagle motif could also be inspired by a classical symbol.
The post-Second Rebellion flag's laurel of olive branches might indicate a commitment to peace from all sides. Its gold circle and chevrons also resemble a sun, possibly symbolizing a new dawn for Panem.
Panema bears some resemblance to a personification of a republic. Based on her name, she may be a personification of the country of Panem.
In addition, the design of Panema bears a slight resemblance to a statue as a reference to Panem's origin, and the design invokes similarities to Lady Justice.