A Peacekeepers' base was a military facility that trained and housed Peacekeepers who were assigned to serve in a particular district. Rebels were also held in detention on base.

There was presumably at least one base in each of the twelve districts. Entire mining villages scattered across the mountains were eventually devoted to the training and housing of Peacekeepers instead. A mountain at the center of a main town later came to be known as the Nut. An underground military base was established there in the passages and caverns that miners had cleared out inside. A train tunnel carried personnel from the base out into the town square.

In one district, the base was located an hour's walk away from the train station, and twenty minutes from a black market on foot. It was enclosed by a security fence and guarded by armed Peacekeepers. Its facilities were comprised of nondescript gray buildings, which held the barracks, mess hall, latrines, clinic, and gymnasium. There was a desk at the front of the barracks, and each room had four sets of bunk beds and eight lockers. There was also a field where fitness training took place.

Before the Dark Days, one district was the center of a nuclear weapons development program, and they had a substantial underground facility that had been built over centuries as a clandestine refuge for government leaders in times of war, or a last resort for humanity if life above became unlivable. Due to its military ties, it is possible that district could be considered a former Peacekeepers' base.

Following the supposed destruction of that district during the Dark Days, another district became the new seat of military power. Its mining villages eventually served the function of military encampments, with one major base of operations concealed within a mountain.

Around the time of the 10th Hunger Games, a commander oversaw a new cohort of Peacekeepers on a district base. After an execution, a person was taken into custody and held at the base. A plot was planned to break in and free the person to escape from the districts altogether; however, word of the plot was leaked, so the rescuers were hanged for treason.

Decades later, several weeks after a Victory Tour ended, rebels stated that one of the rebels' targets during an uprising was the Peacekeepers' base there. It was referred to as the Peacekeepers' Headquarters.

During a battle, rebels were keen to seize a mountain base from loyalists, as it was the last major holdout in the country. However, after multiple failed attempts to storm the entrances, they resolved to strategically bomb avalanche paths and bury the base inside the mountain instead. They left a train tunnel open for survivors to flee into the town square and surrender. This strategy wiped out a significant portion of the air force, shifting the tide of the war in favor of newly united district rebels.

The term Peacekeepers' Headquarters was only used once throughout the entire trilogy. In a prequel, the base in one district was consistently referred to as "the base" or just "base". At the time of the prequel, it was relatively common for Peacekeepers on base in that district to go by nicknames.