A pod is an obstacle or weapon designed to trap or kill anyone in proximity of its activation. Many pods were planted around a city, which served in its defense during a rebellion.

The creation of pods dates back to an earlier period of conflict. More pods were added over the years.

With the use of a digital map, rebel units could access information marked with pods. Using this information, rebels could attempt to navigate around the marked pods or purposefully trigger them at a safe distance. However, some of the data points were outdated. For example, one pod was mislabeled and released a sunburst of metal darts instead of the expected threat.

Several days later, a squad was set to film on a block with several active pods: one set off a spray of gunfire, while the other was meant to net an individual. The gunfire pod was triggered without causing any injuries, but a commander stepped on an unlabeled pod that blew off his legs. He would die soon after from blood loss.

Others shot at other pods in the area in an attempt at minesweeping, triggering explosions and a wave of a black, tar-like substance. In the chaos, one individual was triggered and attacked another. An intervenor was thrown into the other marked pod; it turned out that the net was made of barbed wire, piercing him instantly and hoisting him overhead. The rest of the squad got away, and the black wave cleared the way for them by setting off several other pods, including a swarm of insects.

Later that night, a squad decided to travel through the sewers because there were fewer pods than aboveground, and an individual had insider knowledge. They were guided away from pods that would trigger gas, live wires, and large rats. After a rest, they were chased by lizard mutts into a transfer area, where a pod that held flesh-eating rats was quickly detonated. There was a plan to lead the others to avoid a pod that would destroy the ground underneath their feet and feed them into something called a Meat Grinder.

However, one individual stopped another from running headlong into an unlabeled pod: a wide shaft of golden light that melted a person's flesh off his body. As the rest of the group pushed onwards, two individuals stayed behind to hold off the mutts at the Meat Grinder, where they were then killed. It is unknown whether the pod or the mutts ended their lives.

While sheltering, the remainder of the squad checked a paper map and determined they could walk to a target location through a zone where pods were deactivated for safety. They also learned from reports that rebels had begun letting unmanned vehicles drift to trigger pods. However, the defenses quickly disabled some and reenabled them when rebel forces followed; a group of rebels was seen getting blown to bits by a row of potted plants.

When the squad split up and progressed, two individuals witnessed a pod ahead of them release a gush of steam that boiled its victims to death. Another pod, spanning an entire block, gave off a purple beam of light that caused all the people within it to bleed from every orifice; it only turned off once everyone was dead. At the last pod they encountered, the two sides of the street folded down like flaps into an underground space below, where mutts crawled in the shadows to kill anyone who survived the fall. One individual narrowly managed to hang onto the edge and pull herself out.

In a film adaptation, a squad safely triggered a flamethrower pod. Later, they triggered the Meat Grinder and had to run away as it tore up the ground beneath them.

Despite their design as defense mechanisms, pods killed combatants on both sides, as well as many civilians.