Pre-Second Rebellion civil unrest is an unofficial term referring to the period of civil disorder preceding the Second Rebellion.

The first uprising since the Dark Days took place in one district during the Hunger Games. A riot broke out in response to the death of a young tribute. The conflict lasted until after dark, when reinforcements arrived to quell the uprising.

Open rebellion only began to gain momentum when two tributes threatened a double suicide unless they were both allowed to live. This served as a major turning point for national politics, and their act of defiance unintentionally inspired rebellious sentiment.

During a subsequent tour, a crowd performed a symbolic salute. During visits to other districts, the crowds expressed genuine elation and fury, and their cheers were characterized as cries for vengeance.

The uprising in another district was the first full-scale rebellion since the Dark Days. Rebels carried out a coordinated assault on centers of power and resources, temporarily overwhelming forces until reinforcements arrived. The increased response, combined with suppressive bombings, quelled the uprising within 48 hours. A week-long period of martial law followed. Many were killed when a factory where the uprising was planned was bombed.

Other districts had been in revolt for several weeks, resulting in shortages. There were shortages of goods that implied rebel action as well, alongside rumors of uprisings.

As retaliation for the districts' unrest, it was announced that for a special edition of the Games, the tributes would be reaped from the existing pool of victors. This rule outraged even residents of the ruling city. At the conclusion of a televised program, the victors all held hands in a rebellious display of district unity.

Unbeknownst to the authorities, rebels had begun to devise a plan. Tributes from several districts worked in tandem to protect a specific tribute and break out of the arena. An electrified arrow was fired into the force field, unknowingly allowing for an extraction. Fifteen minutes later, bombers razed a district, and the Second Rebellion officially began.