The term "rebels" refers to individuals who challenge the authority of the ruling power, especially through armed insurrection. The rebel army was composed of militia fighters from various districts as well as better-trained and equipped armed forces from a specific district.

While there are underground rebel networks in various districts, the rebel war effort is headquartered in a specific district, which served as the launching pad for failed and subsequent rebellions. During both wars, this district was responsible for supplying weapons, communications, and military support to rebel forces in the other districts and played an instrumental role in both uprisings. Following the victorious rebellion, the rebels eventually take power and form a constitutional republic.

The rebels are shown to be armed with different types of weapons including explosives and firearms. In the absence of advanced weapons, the rebels are shown to be using bricks and other melee weapons when combating the opposing force. Having secured its own political independence after the earlier war, the district had a military arsenal of its own consisting of firearms, ammunition, hovercrafts, bombs, and nuclear arms. During the years between wars, it continued building upon its armed forces and manufacturing new types of weaponry.

The exact cause of the earlier war is unknown, although it can be assumed that it was the result of years, if not decades of living under brutal oppression. For most of the known history, the ruling government was a totalitarian dictatorship, a police state which subjected all districts to a centrally planned economy and a system which severely curtailed civil liberties. The lack of freedom, coupled with the brutal oppression and abject poverty citizens endured, was a major instigator. The district is mentioned to have started the rebellion. Being the headquarters of the military industrial complex, and possessing nuclear weapons, this made the district a considerable threat to the ruling power's authority.

The war lasted three years. Most of the details of the war are not available, although it is mentioned that the rebels, with support from the district and its military arsenal, were able to fight on par with the opposing forces for a period of time and pose a significant threat. They were able to overtake the bomb alarm system in one district, which allowed them to send false alarms, allowing them to deal more damage during air raids. Much of the war was fought on the ground and in the air, marked by indiscriminate surface-based and aerial artillery bombardments, as well as a confused mixture of asymmetrical and conventional ground warfare that resulted in widespread destruction of infrastructure and loss of life throughout the country. In the final two years of the war, the rebels decidedly had the upper hand, having successfully cut off the ruling power from outside support. This led to famine as well as abject poverty, with citizens lacking access to basic goods. At some point, the rebels attempted to end the siege by invading the city through scaling the mountains which surrounded it, serving as a natural barrier. This made the invading force an easy target; the air force was able to spot them and kill off large numbers, forcing them to retreat. The massive loss of manpower and equipment presumably had a devastating impact on the rebel war effort and was likely the catalyst for the war turning against them. Realizing that a complete rebel victory was no longer possible, the district trained its arsenal of nuclear missiles on the city, knowing that the ruling power had another arsenal. Threatening mutual destruction, the district was able to secure its own political independence, on the condition that they withdraw themselves from the war and move into a large underground shelter. Following this, the air force annihilated all of the district's above-ground infrastructure, presenting to other districts the illusion that the district had been annihilated. With the loss of the district's military support, the rebellion quickly collapsed as the remaining rebel forces could not continue resisting. The ruling power was able to quickly overrun any remaining resistance in the other districts and reestablish its control.

Following the defeat, a treaty was put forth, which set forth several new restrictions on the districts. All travel between districts and to the city was prohibited with narrow exemptions. There was a prohibition on the ownership and production of weapons, except for those needed for industrial use. An annual event was instituted, in which each district must offer up a youth to fight to death for the purposes of entertainment and intimidation. Mass executions of rebel leaders, soldiers, and dissidents presumably took place in all districts. For the next decades, the districts continued to be subject to oppressive rule. Most rebel activity was thoroughly rooted out by the peacekeeping force in the first two decades that followed.

During a specific iteration of the annual event, a group of rebels and rebel sympathizers plotted to destroy the arena's control systems and disrupt the event. They succeeded in causing the arena to malfunction and damaging it. However, the plan failed to stop the event. Afterwards, the ruling leader had conspirators tortured for information.

A controversial victory in the event led to unrest in the districts once more. During the event, one district revolted, and in the months that followed, several other districts started rebelling. The ruling power responded harshly to the uprisings, executing instigators and dissidents. In an attempt to quell the uprising, a series of changes were announced for a special edition of the event. The event ended without a victor; the arena was destroyed, causing blackouts. Following this, uprisings broke out in numerous districts, before several participants were rescued from the arena and taken to the rebel district in a hovercraft belonging to the rebels. This marked the start of the Second Rebellion.

The ruling power responded to the event through a firebombing raid on one district, completely destroying it. Tactical, operational, and strategic details of the war from this point until the final battle are mostly unavailable. Fighting over the next several months was largely marked by indiscriminate surface-based and aerial artillery bombardments, as well as a confused mixture of asymmetrical and conventional ground warfare that resulted in widespread destruction of infrastructure and loss of life throughout the country. After months of warfare, the rebels were able to take over all districts and the city itself. Mass arrests of officials, peacekeepers, and cabinet members followed, with large numbers of them being sentenced to death.

An interim leader served in the weeks following the rebel victory. Several weeks passed before the former ruler was scheduled to be publicly executed. On the day of the execution, the interim leader held a private meeting with the remaining event victors, where a final event was proposed with the children of high-ranking officials. A majority voted in favor. During what was supposed to be the execution, the assassin made the last-minute decision to assassinate the interim leader after realizing her role in a bombing. A riot ensued, in which mass numbers of citizens lynched the former ruler. An election was soon called, and a rebel leader became the first democratically elected president. In the weeks that followed, the rebels set up a constitutional republic consisting of presumably a legislative and judicial branch, alongside the presidency.