In general, a school is a place where children receive an education. There are schools in both the Capitol and the districts. The main purpose of schools is to train children in preparation to work in their districts' industries. Schools also serve as propaganda outlets to indoctrinate them into submission to the Capitol and to discourage rebellion.

School in the districts
Every lesson seemed to come back to the district's industry, except for basic reading, math, and the weekly lecture on history. This history was highly propagandized rather than an actual account of past events. Children learned little about geography beyond the location of the Capitol and their own district. School subjects were taught by different instructors. Outside of regular lessons, the school held assemblies, sports activities, and competitions. The school also organized annual tours of the industry, and students graduated from school to work at the age of 18. Teachers informed students about mandatory television programming. In some districts, children began working before they left school. In one district, lessons were not held amid the harvest and everyone, including young children, worked during this time. Victors under the age of 18 were not required to keep attending school.

One district's school was called the Education Center. Anyone required to attend would have their schedule printed onto their arm in temporary ink each morning. Apart from the Education Center, people over a certain age were given combat training. There was also an orientation for new citizens.

School in the Capitol
There was an elite, four-year secondary school known as the Academy. Tuition was free and uniforms, supplies, and lunches were provided. Students who committed serious infractions would receive a demerit, and three demerits would result in expulsion. However, the school had a tradition of offering students a lifeline as an alternative to public disgrace. Subjects taught included communications, physical education, history, and advanced science. High-performing students would be presented with financial prizes upon graduation, which could pay tuition fees at the University. Students graduated at 18. The Capitol also had other secondary schools. During a past period, the government provided a free snack in order to incentivize children to attend.

School in post-war times
More than twenty years after a rebellion, past events were taught about at school.