Smiley was a male individual who enlisted in the Peacekeepers. He was originally born in one district, but was assigned to work in another. He disliked the idea of working the textile mills that his home district was known for, hence his decision to enroll in the Peacekeepers. He was a highly outgoing individual and considered his bunkmates his family.

Smiley had a history of selling things at the black market back in his home district. At the time that another individual enrolled in the Peacekeepers following a major event, Smiley had only been enlisted for a week, but already seemed to have the routine down pat. He had become friends with his bunkmate. Upon meeting the new recruits, Smiley declared the group fast friends and gave them each nicknames. It was likely that "Smiley" was, itself, a nickname. He introduced the new Peacekeepers to a local establishment and often distracted them with his constant chatter.

Smiley was disappointed when he learned that Peacekeepers were required to serve for a month before collecting their first paycheck, having counted on the money for a night of revelry. He was therefore cheered when a new recruit joined the group and his mother sent presents of food, which was shared with the group. Smiley suggested to set aside some of the bounty to trade for drinks during a musical performance, and the others agreed.

At a clinic, Smiley met a nurse who told him of what was going on around the district. He told his bunkmates that an individual had been arrested for murders in the mines and was to be hanged that afternoon. Although some of his bunkmates attended, Smiley did not, and was eager to hear about what had happened.

During his first visit to watch the musical performance, Smiley broke one of the cookies into a dozen pieces for others to sample and trade for, having learned the strategy from dealing in the black market. They ended up with a bottle of liquor, which the bunkmates shared. Because of his skill in trading, Smiley ended up as the group's treasurer.

The morning after two murders, Smiley learned of their identities by speaking to his nurse friend again and informed his bunkmates about what had happened, though he didn't know that some of his bunkmates had been involved with the murders firsthand. He later let the others know that another individual had died during the night, and after a bunkmate was arrested, led his group in confronting their sergeant at target practice to claim that the arrested individual hadn't committed the murders. However, the arrested individual was executed for his rebellious plans.

One bunkmate remained in contact with Smiley after returning to the central city. Smiley wrote him a letter informing him that a female performer had disappeared, and was rumored to have been killed by a local official, who suspected her of murder. He also told his former bunkmate that their commander had been replaced by a new commander who had outlawed the musical performances at the local establishment, because music caused trouble.