Music appears and is mentioned throughout The Hunger Games trilogy. Music holds importance for many characters: one character's father was renowned for his singing voice and taught many songs to his daughter; another character described music as her favorite thing in the world. Music often plays a part in celebrations or important events.

Music is prominent in the prequel novel, in which a character is a member of a performing group. This character performs a number of songs throughout the novel. Several songs also play a role in another related work.

"Deep in the Meadow" is a song sung by one character to another as the latter was nearing death. The dying character's last request was to hear a song. The singer remembered a lullaby she would sing to her sister when she was ill. The words are easy, soothing, and calming. The singer also found herself musing on the words of this song many years later as she watched her own children play. In the prequel, another character sings this song to a young girl, having sung it to her in the past when she was ill. Another character also listens to the song and finds it soothing, until mockingjays pick up the melody, which he finds disturbing.

"The Hanging Tree" was a song learned from a father when young, but the singer's mother forbade singing it because of the song's morbid and rebellious lyrics. The singer would not sing the song again for another ten years. In a related film, the song was surreptitiously recorded for a propaganda piece, and the words were changed. After the propaganda aired, rebels took it up as a protest song as they blew up a dam, causing a massive power outage that allowed rebel forces to carry out a rescue mission.

The song has a brief backstory in the prequel. It was one of many songs composed by a character, and it was written about an execution at a real hanging tree. The song was banned by an official, who considered it rebellious. Soon after, musical performances were banned at a location because music caused trouble.

"Anthem" is the national song. It often accompanies propaganda media and is played at the end of each day in the arena.

A simple four-note melody was developed as a signal to agricultural workers that the working day had ended. It was whistled to a group of mockingjays, who then carried it across the fields. The tune was later used to signal between characters in the arena.

A children's song about a mouse and a clock is sung by a character.

Music features prominently in a wedding; a traditional wedding song compares marriage to a long sea voyage. At the celebration following the ceremony, refugees show off their traditional music and dancing.

"Gem of Panem" is the anthem during a historical period, and it remained so during the time of a specific set of Games. It is a favorite song of a grandmother character, and her grandson is talented at singing it due to having heard her sing it many times.

"Nothing You Can Take From Me" was performed by a character at a reaping. It was the first song another character ever heard her perform. As it was broadcast nationally, it made her an instant sensation, catching the attention of potential sponsors. The first lines of the song were actually sung by members of a performing group within the audience; the main character then picked up the song and continued it.

"The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird" is performed by a character during an interview before the Games. Another character considered it a dark, moving and far too personal account of the singer's life, and found himself jealous. The singer later explained that the last line specifically refers to a past romantic betrayal. Many years later, a character arranged for another person to see the footage of this performance.

"The Old Therebefore" was another song performed by a character. She sang it after snake muttations were loosed into an arena. The snakes were completely mesmerized by her and after completing it, the singer began a soft humming to keep them docile.

"That Thing I Love With" is performed by a character and her group at a gathering. It is the first song that she performs upon her return home after winning the Games, and it is the first song another character hears her perform there. It has a bright and upbeat musical accompaniment.

"Lucy Gray" was the song from which a character got her name. A young girl performed it for another character during a day trip. The song was about a girl who was sent out into a snowstorm and apparently ended up becoming a ghost. The listener disliked the song, as he both did not understand it entirely and thought it ridiculous. The second to last verse was put on her grave marker in a secret graveyard. Another character stumbled across it many years after the singer vanished while looking for a grave.

"I'll Sell You For a Song" is sung by a character, described as a downbeat number with a "mournful" musical accompaniment by the rest of her group. Another character disliked it, as he thought that it might be inspired by the singer's spurned lover.

"Pure As The Driven Snow" was another song. A character believed it had been written for him.

"The Valley Song" is a slightly modified version of a traditional folk song, sung in a cage at a zoo, and later in a district. This may also be the same song another character remembers hearing sung at school when they were children.

Mockingjays and jabberjays echoed people's screams at a hanging tree, gradually devolving from recognizable human speech into a string of notes that mirrored the inflection of one's voice.
A young girl sang a version of a traditional folk ballad.
A character described something once sung about a man thought to have frozen to death. After an attempt at cremation, he only thawed out and was fine.
A performing group also sang a birthday song to an official.
The group performed a version of a traditional upbeat song.

"The Goose and the Common" is a variation of an anonymous poem about social injustice that a character sets to music, but is not allowed to play in public. Another character also sung it when he thought he had broken an arena.

A character sang a song to herself before the Games to remind herself of her priorities. The next year, she taught it to the tributes.

"Ah! Sun-flower" is a real-world poem. It was an old-timey song sung by a character. Another character later sung it to tributes from another district to attempt to recruit them. The tributes acted awkward after it was sung.

This was a song sung by the children of a district during harvesttime. One character was shocked when another started singing it, as she didn't know the singer was originally from that district. The singer sung the song again when she found a mockingjay in a tree in the arena.

This is a variant of a real-world nursery rhyme. It was sung by one character to another the night after they escaped some mutts. She also sung it as they faced off against the mutts for the second time.

A poem by Edgar Allan Poe echoes throughout a related work, as it is a character's name ballad.

A character sung a song called "The Capitol Store," and is mentioned as having played "The Hanging Tree."
"Nothing You Can Take From Me" was alluded to as a song a character would sing. Another character knew the titular phrase, but had never heard the song.
While trapped alone after a victory, a character has no control over the television and is forced to listen to replays of gory deaths. However, one evening, a recording of a performance of "The Old Therebefore" plays, to mess with his mind.
A character sang a song at a funeral, providing comfort.