Sponsorship was the program which allowed a mentor to send helpful items to a tribute in the Hunger Games. These gifts were sent with donations from sponsors, such as rich citizens from the Capitol or family and friends in the tribute's home district. Tributes were sponsored based on their first impression at the Tribute Parade, training scores, impression in the interviews, performance in the arena, as well as a number of other factors.

Through mentors, sponsors could donate money to support their favorite tributes. Mentors could then choose what to send into the arena and when. Tributes could be sponsored by individuals or groups. The longer the Games go on, the more expensive it was to send anything.

Sponsor gifts generally consisted of food and drink, medicine, weapons, or tools.

In an early iteration of the Games, mentors sent sponsor gifts via a device, and they were able to do so very often, but the catalog was limited. These were delivered by drones that found their recipients using facial recognition, but it was a flawed system. The very first gift of water had to be re-sent, and sponsor gifts were the tributes' only means of obtaining food and water inside the arena. This incentivized tributes stealing each other's gifts. Some tributes were even able to manipulate the drones themselves, weaponizing them against other tributes.

In later editions of the Games, items were delivered by silver parachutes. However, any gift that was sent cost an exorbitant amount, with the cost increasing the longer the Games went on.

Mentors could use the timing and selection of their gifts to communicate indirectly with their tributes. For instance, a tribute was able to glean ideas about strategy from a mentor's choice to send or withhold gifts. Rebels did something similar with an alliance of rebel victors in a later Games; they sent coded messages in the form of bread, based on the number of rolls sent and the district of origin, in order to signal the time and day of their rescue from the arena.