The Hunger Games: Catching Fire is the film adaptation of Catching Fire and the sequel to The Hunger Games. It was released on November 22, 2013.

The movie begins with a distressed protagonist hunting outside her district. Due to PTSD from her time in the Hunger Games, she nearly shoots her friend. The two then return home. As the Victors of the previous Hunger Games, the protagonist and her fellow victor are required to take a Victory Tour of the country and pay respect to the fallen tributes of the other districts. The nation's leader visits the protagonist and tells her she has inspired rebellions in the districts. He orders her to convince the entire country that her and her fellow victor's love was the reason for their actions, and to convince the leader himself, or he will ensure that her loved ones suffer. The protagonist and her fellow victor have been cold towards each other since coming home, except when cameras are around, because her 'love' for him in the Games was staged, while his is real. However, while heading out on the tour, he admits he is grateful to her for saving them in the Games, and suggests they should try being just friends.
The tour first visits the district home of a young girl the protagonist befriended in last year's Games, and of another tribute who spared her life. Although they have been given scripted speeches to read, her fellow victor discards it and generously pledges an annual portion of their winnings to help compensate the families and the protagonist emotionally voices her gratitude and her regret over the girl's death. An old man in the crowd whistles a tune and makes a three-finger salute. Everyone follows the man's example, until Peacekeepers drag him to the stage and shoot him. Their mentor tells the protagonist and her fellow victor the "show" of their relationship must continue for the rest of their lives. With this and the leader's threat hanging over her head, they continue the tour just reading what they're given. The rest of the tour goes poorly. Realizing they're only encouraging reactions in the districts, rather than pacifying them as the leader wants, the protagonist proposes a public engagement between herself and her fellow victor, which is announced and celebrated. However, during the party the leader informs her she has failed to meet his demands. The protagonist also meets the new Head Gamemaker, and the two share a brief dance and a few tense words.
Later, the leader watches footage of rebels fighting in a district with the new Head Gamemaker. The leader remarks that the protagonist only wanted to save herself and her fellow victor, but she is a beacon of hope to the rebels and must be eliminated. The Gamemaker makes a counter-suggestion that the protagonist should be used to show the Districts how the Victors become lackeys of the Capitol, while simultaneously cracking down on the districts to confiscate their hope. The leader muses this is risky, but decides to test the plan.
Returning home, the protagonist warns her friend of the leader's threat to kill both their families, and asks him to run away with her and her fellow victor. Her friend, who is in love with her, is angry about her 'engagement', but he is distracted when she mentions having seen an uprising and refuses to leave, thinking now is the time to fight back. A new squadron of Peacekeepers arrive to crack down on the district, and her friend is publicly whipped after stopping the new Head Peacekeeper from attacking an elderly black market vendor. The protagonist tries to save him but is punched in the face for interference. The Head Peacekeeper is then ready to shoot both her and her friend when their mentor and her fellow victor intervene, reminding him that the protagonist is important to the Capitol. The Head Peacekeeper stands down, but promises to kill all of them if there's even the slightest trouble. He then declares curfew on the district. The protagonist, resigned that she cannot prevent the districts from rebelling even if she wanted to, decides she will stay with her friend. She is supported in this by her sister. The leader and the Gamemaker discuss this incident, and the leader wants rid of the protagonist now. The Gamemaker tells him that while she certainly needs to die it will have to be under the right circumstances, and suggests a way to do it.
The leader announces a special version of the Hunger Games that is held every 25 years. For this event, all tributes are to be selected from the existing pool of victors. As the only female victor from her district, the protagonist will be back in the Games no matter what and she quickly realizes that getting her back in the arena is the whole point of this rule. After overcoming her initial terror, the protagonist makes a deal with her mentor to ensure her fellow victor becomes the event's victor, should he compete in the Games, because she sees him as a better person. At the reaping, the protagonist, the district's only living female tribute, and her mentor are reaped. Her fellow victor immediately volunteers to take her mentor's place to protect her and they are sent directly to the train, without a chance to say goodbye to their loved ones.
When they reach the Capitol, the mentor tells the protagonist she needs allies during these Games, because the other tributes know one another and will target her and her fellow victor. The protagonist dislikes some tributes and mistrusts others. She befriends the tributes from one district, as well as another tribute's fellow tribute and mentor, a kindly old woman. The protagonist herself is much sought after as an ally after the other tributes see her archery skills. However, she confesses to her fellow victor the night before the Games that she doesn't want to be allies with anyone except him.
During the final interview, the protagonist becomes aware of how angry the Tributes are with the situation, as they are trying to convince the leader to cancel the Games. The protagonist is forced to wear a wedding dress by the leader, but her stylist designed it to burn away when she twirled, revealing a symbolic dress underneath. This infuriates the leader. Her fellow victor follows this up by lying that he and the protagonist married secretly and are expecting a child, throwing the audience into uproar. Finally, the tributes join hands in a show of unity among the districts, defying the Capitol. The interview is abruptly cut off, but the Games are still on. Their chaperone bids the protagonist and her fellow victor a surprisingly emotional farewell. The protagonist reminds her mentor of his promise to help keep her fellow victor alive, and he gives her one last piece of advice.
Seconds before the protagonist is to be launched into the Games, Peacekeepers enter the room and brutally beat her stylist unconscious and drag him away, which she is forced to watch in horror. She is lifted into a jungle arena, with the Cornucopia at the center of a massive saltwater lake divided into wedges by twelve narrow stone paths. After an initial battle on reaching the Cornucopia, the protagonist teams up with two other tributes because one is wearing a bracelet belonging to her mentor, indicating she should trust him. Another group immediately forms their own alliance. After retrieving her fellow victor and they pick up weapons, they head into the jungle. The leader, watching the Games with the Gamemaker, is already growing impatient. The Gamemaker reassures him he just wants the audience to see the protagonist turn cold-blooded. The leader tells him he can proceed however he prefers, as long as the Games finish with the protagonist dead.
Meanwhile, during the Hunger Games, the protagonist sees a shimmer of the force field and just as she warned her fellow victor, he hits the force field at the edge of the arena, which stops his heart, until he is revived. During the night, a thick, poisonous fog appears. The old woman bravely sacrifices herself so that the other three can outrun the fog. They rest in the forest, but are soon attacked by a pack of vicious creatures. Her fellow victor is unexpectedly saved when another tribute sacrifices herself.
They escape to the beach, and are met by three other tributes at dawn. One is in shock; another is injured and carrying a strange coil of wire. The shocked tribute discovers that the arena is designed like a clock and every hour a specific attack occurs in its designated section. The twelve-hour section is pointed to by the tail of the Cornucopia, where a lightning storm strikes around a huge tree. The six allies go to the Cornucopia to view the clock system more closely, but they are suddenly ambushed. The shocked tribute is fatally stabbed, but the protagonist kills the attacker and another ally kills the other attacker; the remaining two from the other alliance escape. In the control room, the Gamemaker sets the Cornucopia island spinning to confuse the tributes' ability to tell time, but when the protagonist falls off the island and seems about to drown, he abruptly halts it.
After recovering their weapons, the alliance regroups on the beach. The protagonist and her ally are accidentally drawn into a section of the clock inhabited by birds which scream identically to their loved ones, torturing them for an hour. Later, her fellow victor and the protagonist discuss leaving the alliance. The protagonist knows they will have to fight them once the other alliance is dead and she doesn't want to kill her allies, but she must to keep her fellow victor alive. He agrees they will leave the alliance after midnight, then mentions that whatever deals she made with their mentor to keep him alive, their mentor made promises to him too. Her fellow victor reasons that if the protagonist died, he would have nothing to live for, and there are people at home who need her, whereas nobody needs him. The protagonist counters that she does need him, and kisses him passionately, no longer acting. Watching from the control room, the leader shows satisfaction. The Gamemaker nods, then leaves the room.
The injured tribute suggests a plan to electrocute the two remaining tributes outside the alliance, using his wire and the tree that is struck by lightning, connected to the saltwater pool and the damp beach. He tells two allies to protect him near the tree until midnight, while the protagonist and another ally run the end of the wire down to the beach. The protagonist and her fellow victor are very reluctant to separate now, but she agrees to lay the wire when her allies imply she intends to break the alliance. The protagonist tells her fellow victor she will see him at midnight and departs. When the wire is unexpectedly cut after a distance, her ally suddenly concusses the protagonist, cutting the tracker out of her arm and telling her to stay down, as the other alliance is stalking them. She leads them away from the weakened protagonist.
Thinking her allies broke the alliance, the protagonist tries to find her fellow victor back at the tree, but finds only the injured tribute, who was stunned. Unable to find her fellow victor, and hearing the sound of a cannon, she calls out for him frantically. When her ally appears, she prepares to shoot him, but he stops her by repeating their mentor's last advice. Changing her mind, the protagonist attaches the remaining wire to an arrow. Her ally warns her not to do it, but she shoots at the force field just as the lightning strike occurs, blowing up the tree, and shutting down the forcefield around the arena. This electrocutes the protagonist, and causes a power outage in the control room. Shocked, the leader calls the Gamemaker angrily, but the Gamemaker is gone. The protagonist is paralyzed by the explosion and is too weak to move or speak. She opens her eyes and sees burning sections of the arena dome crashing down around her. A hovercraft appears, descends into the wreckage, and picks her up before she passes out.
She awakens in the hovercraft with an unconscious tribute beside her. Entering the cockpit, the protagonist picks up a needle, ready to attack, but unexpectedly, she finds her mentor, her ally, and the Gamemaker, revealed to be a rebel agent. The Gamemaker explains that they and the district rebels, along with half of the tributes, had been planning to free her to help support their revolution; the hovercraft is headed for another district. When the protagonist learns her fellow victor and another ally were captured, she attacks her mentor for not keeping his promise to save him. The Gamemaker sedates her, and she awakens days later with her friend by her side, who informs that her family is safe, but her home district has been destroyed. The protagonist, in shock, horror and sadness, begins to look mad in fury, planning to get revenge.