The Hunger Games Adventures was a game on Facebook also available for the iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, Android, and Kindle Fire. Players could create their own character, complete challenges, do quests, unlock new things, and explore the world of Panem. The game was released on March 23, 2012. Development ceased circa late 2017, and as of December 2020, it is no longer available.

The game begins with a tutorial in which the player receives a bow and arrows to defend themselves and fend off a vulture mutt. In the first chapter, the player starts by building, decorating, and using a shelter in their forest escape. The player is introduced to hunting in order to survive. They make snares, banish a vulture mutt, and collect from the snares.

The player learns a lullaby and is brought to an illegal black market to trade. They are shown a lake in the woods. They craft a fishing pole, and then the player banishes a swarm of Tracker Jackers. Finally the player collects edible plants and builds a well.

The player helps save and heal people from a collapsed house and rebuild it. The player then helps feed a starving girl. The player then prepares a flask of coffee and in return gets told about the Hunger Games. Snake mutts are fought, and a package from a mysterious benefactor appears. The two then go to a building and take out a portion of tesserae.

When two children go missing in the woods, the player tracks them down. An explosion occurs at the mine later, and with help, trapped miners are brought to safety and treated. A cat then goes missing, but is saved by the player.

The player helps clean up a schoolyard and planting flowers, and retrieves a family of bunnies from the woods. The player is then forced to help prepare for an upcoming reaping. It is explained that the benefactor has drawn attention to the player and they must escape and live elsewhere, and secures a fake ID card and sends the player on a train, but receives more gifts from the mystery sponsor.

Upon arriving, the player meets an assistant, who gives the initial task of retrieving a schedule. A request is made for a new wig for a reaping, which the player is tasked with creating. A request is made to retrieve rare gemstones, but instead, finds two runaways. The player banishes a scorpion mutt menacing them, and heals them afterward. Taking pity, help is given to make a shelter and provide food. The player sets a lure of meat and constructs a mossy arrowhead to attract and banish the scorpion mutts for good.

When a sponsor gift appears, the benefactor instructs the player to assist with research on the Hunger Games, and the player helps retrieve flame samples from an arena to use as fireballs. The player then helps make new flora designs for the arena, and tests out the fireball effect, which proves successful. The player also practices against an initial mutt which is easily defeated, which is wanted to be upgraded. The player then practices against four types at once.

After completing the work, a request is made to help design outfits prepared for tributes. Gathering the right materials and dyes, the player delivers them, and two leather outfits specially designed to literally light on fire when presented are created. A request is then made for the flame samples to complete a new dress for a female tribute, which will allow the dress to catch on fire when twirled. After doing so, thanks are given for the help.

A request is made to help continue research for the games concerning tracker jackers. Due to the extreme population of tracker jackers, the player must travel to complete the research, but runs into trouble when the train breaks down. The player then fixes the train and travels, where help is given to free falsely accused friends from prison and across a border.

Upon successfully freeing friends from custody, the player is introduced to someone willing to help rid the area of tracker jackers. Burning huge bonfires in the woods, the player drives off the mutts, but gain little research.

As heroic actions spread, a television special on the brave adventures is wished to be hosted, and travel occurs to shoot. The player then meets up with someone who explains a family they helped is in poverty, and with help, shocked at living conditions, the family is given a home and a shelter. A wish is made to stay with the family and protect them, and a life is given up when the TV crew returns home.

A decision is made to shoot more scenes at another location, where the player meets a gym teacher and two others. A competition is taking place and the player decides to help someone whose partner backed out, and win against others, who take belongings. In a negotiation, gear and belongings are returned. It is revealed that a brother, who had grown deathly ill, is the only reason for a choice. The player must sneak into a Supply Depot and retrieve a medicine remedy for the brother, which is made and given. After finishing filming, a train is boarded back, and a reaping is held the next day.

Set during events, this chapter weaves into the main plot, primarily from the point in which tributes arrive. While the player has little interaction with most tributes, the focus is set in scenes filling in gaps concerning the affairs of characters, such as helping with a makeover stand following a parade, creating a topiary garden, and assisting in formulating a plan to use love as a key part in earning sponsors. As the game progresses, the player will eventually secure an invitation to a ball at a mansion, where the mysterious benefactor asks for plans for future games, which are stashed in a study. The chapter then concludes with interviews and reactions, with the actual games beginning the very next day.

Also running alongside, this chapter chronicles the first part of the games and a star-crossed romance. A district is introduced. In the district, you meet a girl and her father. At first you help rescue people on the beach, who got stuck when a tsunami hit. The girl works at a beach house. You ultimately seek to acquire a fish, which is used in making healing cream, so sponsors can send it to a tribute in the Games.

In this chapter, you visit another district, and meet locals. First, a workshop needs to be moved, which you help with. Then you learn a secret garden has been raised, which you help acquire plants for.

Two have won the games. In this chapter you start by welcoming them back, then help them return and move into a new village. You also work to prevent keepers from disassembling dwellings used by citizens. This chapter covers through the end.

This chapter covers a victory tour. You start by helping with a victory tour in various behind the scenes ways. You then accompany them through a first stop.

This chapter takes place during the victory tour. You don't stop at any new districts, however, you do help design and build a wedding dress.

This chapter doesn't follow book events. As the victory tour continues, you return to a district. You meet someone, and together investigate and banish a plague of mutts that have been invading the district. Along the way, you learn how to make baskets and how to throw tridents. You also meet a scientist and an assistant.

The victory tour has reached another district. You start by making a new bow for yourself. You then meet someone, and help print banners. In the process, you make a short visit to another district, in which you get help. Finally, you meet someone, and together you investigate toxic waste poisoning a forest, fight a forest fire, and replant afterward.

This chapter takes place in a district again. Presumably the victory tour has reached that point. You start by helping create and deploy surveillance cameras to monitor activity. You then help by acquiring and placing lights around a playground so it's safer there when it gets dark. Finally you help repair and install a new power generator for the community.

You start by meeting someone, and designing a new dress. You then travel to a district, help build and decorate a new hall for a festival, and interview people. You conclude by attending a victory party before returning. Along the way you help design outfits for the party, and fix a watch.

You begin by arriving for a festival. You help bake a cake, help make a cold weather outfit and gloves, and help remove a tracker jacker infestation in the woods. You then meet a new head keeper, and reopen a mineshaft. You also help prepare and deliver wedding gowns. In response to treatment, you distribute food. You witness a declaration that tributes will be reaped from existing victors. As a result, your secret contact directs you to someone, who sends you to a district where you help test a special high-conductivity wire. You then help test stations in a new training center, help design a dress, and help make an evacuation center in an old mine. Finally, you attend a reaping, ride a train, help make accessories, and meet someone who has you talk to tributes for an interview.

To promote an upcoming chapter, a brand new, first ever event was released. The new quest features collecting district seals spread around locations and areas of the game that players must find to finish the quest. An official map would also finally be unveiled if enough players found all seals. The locations to get all the seals follow.

In the game, players will have a small retreat in the forest that acts as a hub world in the game, allowing players to build various items and decorate and customize their forestry. Other interactive parts of the escape include trees and rocks that randomly generate and allow the player to collect rocks or wood, and sections of the forest escape that must be unlocked using discovery maps. Players will also find characters here to receive various miscellaneous quests that do not fall under a specific questline or chapter.

Throughout the game, the player unlocks different locations to visit.