The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes is a prequel novel to a dystopian fiction series. Its premise is set 64 years prior to the events explored in the first book of the original trilogy. The prequel is stylistically written in the third-person point of view, diverging from the original trilogy, which is told using the first-person point of view of its protagonist.

The novel follows the journey of an 18-year-old character and is set in a fictional world 64 years before the events of the original trilogy. The book starts on the morning of the reaping for the 10th annual Hunger Games. Historically, the book explores a reconstruction period 10 years after a major war. With the backdrop of the Games looming, the aftermath of a war-torn country struggling back to its feet provides fertile ground for characters to grapple with questions of morality and humanity.

It is the morning of the reaping that will kick off the tenth annual Games. A young man is preparing for his one shot at glory as a mentor in the Games. His once-mighty family has fallen on hard times, its fate hanging on the slender chance that he will be able to outcharm, outwit, and outmaneuver his fellow students to mentor the winning tribute. He’s been given the humiliating assignment of mentoring the female tribute from the lowest district. Their fates are now completely intertwined — every choice he makes could lead to favor or failure, triumph or ruin. Inside the arena, it will be a fight to the death. Outside the arena, he starts to feel for his doomed tribute and must weigh his need to follow the rules against his desire to survive no matter what it takes.

The main character is one of 24 students selected to mentor a tribute in the 10th Hunger Games. His family has fallen on hard times and he is assigned the female tribute from the lowest district, a girl who is part of a singing and performance group. He quickly forms a bond with the girl. He tries everything he can to help his tribute but is also drawn into the troubles of a classmate who is horrified by the treatment of the tributes. He ends up in the Arena himself at the orders of the Head Gamemaker, who has taken a personal interest in him. As the Games continue, he takes desperate measures when he learns that snake mutts are being released in the arena. His tribute is declared the winner. However, he is later confronted with evidence of his rule-breaking and is expelled, forced to enroll as a Peacekeeper.

He enrolls as a Peacekeeper, asking to be assigned to the district of his former tribute, with whom he has fallen in love. In the district, things quickly become tangled as his classmate was made to enroll as well and seems bent on helping rebels. He learns of bubbling rebel resentment while trying to form a new life. He also takes a test to become an officer. Things come to a head when he discovers his classmate aiding rebels. He covertly informs the authorities but ends up involved in a killing. He hatches a desperate plan to run away, but then discovers he can get rid of the evidence. At the same time, his former tribute realizes his betrayal and loyalty to the ruling power. She runs away and sets a trap for him. He tries to track her down but is bitten by a snake. He fires into the woods, though it is unclear if his shots connect. The next day, he travels away to become an officer but is diverted back to the Capitol by the Head Gamemaker, who decides to take him on as her protégé. He begins studying at the University and also takes on a position as an apprentice Gamemaker. He then implemented many of his ideas into the Games that are seen in later years. A wealthy family funds his studies, convinced he was a great friend of their son and unaware of his betrayal. He poisons the Academy dean, the first victim of his signature method of dispatching his enemies.

The main character is one of the 24 mentors assigned for the 10th Hunger Games. His family was once powerful but has since fallen on hard times. He is assigned to mentor the female tribute from the lowest district. He becomes embroiled in the ongoing conflict and must face matters of love, chaos, and control. His tribute is a talented singer and part of a performance group. She makes a dramatic entrance into the Hunger Games and later becomes her district's first victor. She and the mentor fall in love, but upon finding out who he really is, she attempts to run away, setting a trap for him. The dean of the Academy is credited for creating the Games. He has a dark secret in his past and seems to bear a grudge against the main character. Another mentor is from a district himself and still sympathizes with those in the districts. His father is a powerful war profiteer who bought his family a new life in the Capitol but struggles against his son's rebellious ways. The main character's cousin has lived with his family from a very young age. They are like close siblings, and she worries over him as the family's financial situation worsens. The grandmother of the main character is a regal woman who sings the Capitol anthem and grows roses. She dotes on him and often speaks of the family grandeur. However, as the family struggles to mask their poor financial situation, she begins to descend into denial. The Head Gamemaker of the 10th Hunger Games works in the experimental weapons division and is also a top professor at the University. She believes that people are inherently violent and is convinced that war is eternal and must be managed. The tribute's old boyfriend ditches her for a much richer partner, and upon learning he was dating them both, the partner ordered her father to call out the tribute's name in the reaping.