The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes is an American dystopian film. It is the fifth installment in the film franchise. It was released theatrically on November 17, 2023.

As one of the top students at the Academy, a school for the Capitol's elite, Coriolanus Snow is selected to mentor Lucy Gray Baird, District 12's female tribute, in the 10th Hunger Games. As he works with Lucy Gray, the two grow close together, leading Snow on an unexpected rise to power as he fights to make sure Lucy Gray wins the Hunger Games at any cost.

Three years before the 1st Hunger Games, a young Coriolanus Snow is led by his cousin through the ruined streets of the Capitol. They locate food, but they're confronted by a rabid dog. However, while hiding, they see an otherwise respectable man kneeling and chopping off the leg of a corpse. When Coriolanus asks why he would do that, the reply is that he's starving. They make their way home safely, but inside their apartment, the Grandma'am is flanked by two Peacekeepers, and she explains that Coriolanus's father has been killed by a rebel trap in the woods outside District 12.

13 years later, Coriolanus Snow is now in his senior year at the Academy. It is the day of the reaping ceremony, and tensions run high for the Plinth Prize—a prize awarded to the highest achieving student upon graduation, giving them access to the highest reaches of the government and paying their university tuition. Ever since the war began, the Snow family has fallen into tough times, and the Plinth Prize is a necessity for Coriolanus to attend the University.
In the morning, Coriolanus cannot find his father's dress shirt, which he plans to wear to the reaping. However, his cousin returns it to him after fashioning the shirt. Coriolanus thanks her and leaves for the Academy.
As the anthem plays and the students get into their seats, the Head Gamemaker begins to speak, having high hopes of the new generation and introducing the Dean, the creator of the Hunger Games.
The Dean continues with the speech, announcing that the Capitol citizens have grown bored of the Games. Now the Plinth Prize winner will not be based on grades, but instead awarded to the best mentor in the Hunger Games, who can persuade their district tribute to perform for the cameras. A classmate complains about the possibility of being assigned a weak tribute, but the Dean corrects her by saying that their role is to turn these tribute into spectacles, not survivors.
Once the reaping starts, at last, Coriolanus is assigned the District 12 girl, Lucy Gray Baird. During the reaping, Lucy Gray drops a snake down the dress of the of District 12 Mayor's daughter. She then sings a song, getting attention from everyone and charming Coriolanus.
In a private conversation with the Dean, Coriolanus learns that the Dean is well aware of his family's poverty, despite his best efforts to hide it. Furthermore, the Dean seems to possess an inexplicable grudge against him. At night, the cousin suggests that Coriolanus make Lucy Gray trust him, so she can sing to attract an audience.
Coriolanus decides to visit Lucy Gray at the train station, where the tributes will be arriving in cattle cars. Lucy Gray seems unimpressed with Coriolanus, who gave her a white rose. He then follows her to a cargo car with the other tributes, intent on accompanying her to her quarters. In the cargo car, he nearly gets strangled by a tribute. The car dumps them into the old monkey enclosure in the Capitol Zoo, where the tributes will be put on display before the Games.
They are greeted by a weatherman and amateur magician who will be hosting the 10th Hunger Games. Coriolanus puts the white rose into Lucy Gray's hair and presents her to the Capitol audience at the Zoo. Lucy Gray's dress garners lots of attention from the children. She reveals that she was not originally from District 12, but part of a traveling music group known as the Covey and got trapped in District 12 following the war. Lucy Gray also asks Coriolanus to bring food for her and the other District 12 tribute, Jessup, as neither have eaten since the reaping.
Coriolanus arrives at a mentor meeting, where the Dean expresses great disappointment in his actions and threatens to disqualify him as mentor. A classmate adds on that Coriolanus is making it seem they're the same as these "animals". Another mentor then defends Snow, stating that the tributes are human beings and that's why no one watches the Games. However, the Head Gamemaker interrupts. She was very pleased with Coriolanus visiting Lucy Gray and suggests he should be a Gamemaker, like her. The Head Gamemaker then asks him what the Hunger Games are for, and Coriolanus answers that they're to punish the districts—an answer that the Head Gamemaker is unsatisfied with. The other mentor questions the morality of the Games, making the Dean agree with him. Coriolanus snaps back, suggesting that they can allow the citizens to place bets on the tributes and interview them, so they actually care about what happen to these tributes. His classmate suggests that she and Coriolanus work on this project together, hoping to take the credit.
In the cafeteria, the other mentor reveals to Coriolanus that his tribute was his classmate back in his home district and that his father bought him just to show him that he can never go back to the districts. They head to the zoo in the hopes of interacting with and feeding their tributes. The other mentor's tribute ignores him, and Coriolanus gives a sandwich to Lucy Gray. She shares it with Jessup, who had been bitten by a bat. Coriolanus tells her that he might be able to send her food in the arena and tries to convince her to sing again. Lucy Gray notices Coriolanus staring hungrily at the sandwich, so she also shares some with him. Their conversation stops when another mentor's tribute slits her mentor's throat with a broken bottle, killing her. The tribute is shot dead by Peacekeepers, being the first tribute to die. In the apartment, the Grandma'am warns Coriolanus of Lucy Gray.
The next day, the tributes and mentors have their first official meeting, during which most mentors fail to get their tributes to comply. The classmate and Coriolanus are invited to meet the Head Gamemaker. The classmate panics, as Coriolanus wrote their assignment without her help. Having realized the truth, the Head Gamemaker has her retrieve the project page from a tank of snake mutts. Not recognizing her scent, the snakes bite the classmate, who is taken away unconscious.
The mentors and tribute tour the arena the next day. One tribute gets recruited into an alliance, leaving his betrayed district partner behind. Soon, bombs start going off, killing several tributes and severely injuring a mentor. Two tributes escape with the other mentor's tribute when an exit is bombed opened—although they are immediately shot. Instead of running, Lucy Gray chooses to save Coriolanus from burning debris. Coriolanus wakes up in the hospital and watches Lucy Gray sing a song about her past lover back home for the interviews, gaining many sponsor donations. Coriolanus returns the favour of Lucy Gray saving his life  by secretly going into the bombed, rubble filled arena, discovering tunnels she can hide in and also giving her his mother's compact filled with rat poison. Lucy Gray tells him about her former boyfriend, who caught the attention of the Mayor's daughter. The Mayor's daughter was very jealous and purposely had her dad reap Lucy Gray.

The day of the 10th Hunger Games, Coriolanus walks into the Control room with Communicuffs for sending sponsors, and the Dean warns him to find the other mentor a seat near the door. The host introduces himself and shows that he has an envelope with his predicted winner, which he'll open once the Games end. The tributes enter the arena to see a beaten up tribute hung on a beam in the middle of the arena. Seeing this, the other mentor smashes a chair into the image and runs out of the room, shouting that everyone there is a monster.
The host starts the countdown and the Games begin. Most tributes runs to the Cornucopia as Lucy Gray desperately calls for Jessup. She gets attacked several times by other tributes but successfully takes him to the tunnels, against Coriolanus's wishes. Following them are two tributes, who are then chased by an alliance. Lucy Gray gets through a slot in the wall which leads her to another room, while Jessup follows her. One tribute also goes under the slot, hanging onto Jessup’s leg. The alliance reaches the other two tributes, with one being caught in a net and killed. The other tribute, whose body is halfway through the slot, is stabbed.
The bloodbath has ended with several tributes dead. The host starts his weather forecast when a tribute emerges and mercy kills the hung tribute with an ax. Her mentor sends her the first sponsor gift in the history of the Hunger Games. A drone arrives with her gift but crashes into a pole.
The Games have continued for longer than expected, mainly due to the tunnels revealed during the bombing. The host cancels his hotel reservation as two tributes drag another tribute's corpse from underneath the rubble. The Dean confronts Coriolanus about what he's going to do after the Games and threatens to still not give him the Plinth Prize even if Lucy Gray wins. In the tunnels, Jessup is acting strangely and gets scared of the water Lucy Gray is giving her, a sign of rabies. At night, when Coriolanus is napping in the Academy viewing room, the Head Gamemaker suddenly wakes him up, informing him that the other mentor has snuck into the arena to perform a district tradition of throwing bread crumbs on a fallen comrade. She tells Coriolanus to get the other mentor out of the arena and she might convince his father to give him the Plinth Prize.
Coriolanus finds the other mentor after entering the arena, attempting to convince him to leave. The other mentor refuses, saying he wants to be in front of the cameras, but Coriolanus tells him the feed has already been cut. While trying to convince the other mentor to leave, a tribute attacks the pair. Coriolanus tells the tribute he doesn't want to hurt him, but proceeds to beat him to death when the tribute continues to fight. The two escape while other tributes chase them, nearly making it through the gate with them, and they state Lucy Gray is their next target now.
Coriolanus returns home and tells his cousin about what happened. He tells her that he felt awful during the murder, but then felt powerful. His cousin reminds him that his father only had hate in his eyes, and that Coriolanus doesn't have to follow in his footsteps to be in charge.
The next day, as the mentors watch the Games, Jessup turns on Lucy Gray as his rabies progresses. Coriolanus gets his mentor to send water to scare him away from Lucy Gray. He falls, landing on rocks and mortally wounding him. Lucy Gray stays with him until he passes. Suddenly, the alliance begins to close in on Lucy Gray, who is now alone. As they begin to approach her, Coriolanus sends multiple donations of water into the arena, and a flock of drones start flying into the alliance, who are injured as they stand in the drones' path. Lucy Gray grabs a jar of water and runs before they notice her. She poisons the water while the other tributes go after another tribute and leaves it in the middle of the arena, pouring out the rest of their water. She narrowly escapes, hiding in a duct as the other tributes chase after another tribute. One tribute ends up drinking the water and passing. Another tribute grieves and collects the bodies of the other fallen tributes, placing them together and covering them with a flag in protest and as a memorial, then stares at the camera as he shouts asking if he will be punished. The Head Gamemaker interrupts the broadcast to inform the others of a mentor's death, stating she will punish the distributes by attacking the arena, even if it results in no survivors.

As the Dean calls Coriolanus to his office, he chides him for cheating in the Games, forcing Coriolanus to choose between public humiliation, or the option of being a Peacekeeper.