The Covey's house is where the Covey lived at the time of the 10th Hunger Games.

The small wooden house was located on the edge of the Seam in District 12, near the Meadow and the woods. The front yard was a dirt patch with wildflowers planted in an unorderly fashion, and at the back of the house, there was a makeshift stoop.
Inside, the house was one large, open room with a lofted area for sleeping. The coal stove, sink, a shelf of dishware, and an ancient refrigerator all sat along the back wall, with a window and the back door. The right wall was lined with a clothes rack, and the Covey's musical instruments were arranged along the left wall. In terms of furniture, they had a table and a few chairs, and their television sat on top of a crate, its antenna rigged with aluminum foil.

Sometime during the year of the 9th Hunger Games, the old man who was paid to take care of the six Covey children died of black lung. After that, it is unknown whether the Covey stayed in the same house or if they'd moved and this was their new home.
The next January, the house's pipes froze, so the Covey had to melt down chunks of ice on the stove for water. Once it snowed, they were able to melt down the snow instead with less trouble.

During the 10th Hunger Games, the Covey caught very little of the coverage on their television. However, the night of interviews was a clear one in District 12, so the television was able to get working. They watched the introduction and a performance. The song was intended as a message for them about how the reaping was rigged.
About two weeks after the victor was sent home, the Covey officially kicked out one member. Rather than letting him inside, they tossed his belongings into the backyard for him to retrieve, consisting of a pile of clothes and a few books.

During the 50th Hunger Games, a young girl lived there with her adoptive uncles. She had the loft to herself.

Based on its proximity to the Meadow, this house was probably in the same part of the Seam as another victor's house.
Victors' Village did not exist yet, so despite the victor's status, the Covey never moved there.
If the house survived the years between the events, it probably would have been destroyed alongside the rest of the district in a bombing.